Capital One Quicksilver Cash Rewards Credit Card
How do you get 5% cash back on everything?
Plenty of cash-back cards do have 5% rewards (whether in specific bonus categories or rotating quarterly categories), but you’re not likely to find a card with flat 5% cash back on every purchase. To earn 5% cash back across several of your top spending categories, consider combining more than one cash-back credit card into your rewards strategy.
Are cash-back credit cards worth it?
Cash-back credit cards are often worth it if you’re looking for a simpler rewards credit card option that can still help you save money. Many have no annual fee — and even those that do have fees tend to charge no more than $100 — meaning more of your rewards earnings can go straight toward maximizing your spending. Plus, you can enjoy all the other benefits of
rewards credit cards
, like annual discounts and credits, purchase protections, fraud prevention, and more.
Cash-back credit cards are probably not worth it if you carry a balance, since the interest charges you’ll take on at
can quickly outpace the rewards value. Make sure you spend only what you can afford and pay your balance off every monthly billing cycle to get the most out of your cash-back credit card.
Methodology
Our list of the best cash-back cards is designed to highlight the best overall cards with cash rewards as well as those with the most potential return on your spending.
Expand
We began by calculating average annual rewards for more than three dozen cash-back credit cards. This included every card from major issuers that earn cash back, as well as student and secured options with cash rewards. Retail cards and co-branded card options were excluded to keep this list focused on general cash-back earnings.
To determine average annual rewards, we used the most recent Consumer Expenditure data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics to get an idea of the amount Americans spend each year. We excluded housing, vehicle purchases, healthcare, cash contributions, personal insurance, and pension spending from the total, since these purchases don’t typically apply to credit card spending. That left us with a total average annual expenditure of $22,992 per year, or $1,916 per month.
From there, we broke out several categories and calculated how much the average spender could earn with each card. All non-category spending earned 1% cash back.
The cash-back totals we found were also integrated into the overall criteria we used to give each cash-back card a rating and determine the final picks on our list. In addition to total cash back value, we factored for the cards’ annual fees, rewards structures, 0% intro APR offers, ongoing APRs, any added benefits, and more — in addition to standard factors among all of our best cards ratings, like issuer transparency, mobile app use, credit score access, and others.
Our final best cash-back picks represent the top rated from this list, as well as the cards with the maximum cash-back value according to spending averages.
Editorial Disclosure: The information in this article has not been reviewed or approved by any advertiser. All opinions belong solely to Yahoo Finance and are not those of any other entity. The details on financial products, including card rates and fees, are accurate as of the publish date. All products or services are presented without warranty. Check the bank’s website for the most current information. This site doesn't include all currently available offers. Credit score alone does not guarantee or imply approval for any financial product.
Copyright © 2024 Yahoo. All rights reserved.
POPULAR QUOTES
