mcdonagh@law.harvard.edu
Maureen joined the Center in January 1998 as a Clinical Instructor in the Housing Law Clinic. Prior to her work at the Center, Maureen, for ten years, specialized in the representation of indigent individuals in criminal defense and child abuse and neglect cases. She served as a Mentor Attorney for the Committee for Public Counsel Services’ Children and Family Law Program, where she instructed attorneys who were new to practice in that area of law. Maureen has volunteered as a Citizen Teacher with the Citizen Schools program, mentoring Boston Public Middle School students in a Legal Apprenticeship Program that met at LSC. She is also adjunct faculty at the Urban College of Boston, which is affiliated with Action for Boston Community Development, Inc. Maureen received her B.A. from Suffolk University in 1980 and her J.D. from Suffolk University Law School in 1987.
Julia Devanthéry
jdevanthery@law.harvard.edu
Julia Devanthéry co-teaches the Housing Clinic and directs the Housing Justice for Survivors Project, which she founded in 2017. The Housing Justice for Survivors Project trains clinical law students to represent tenants who are facing housing instability due to domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking. Students under Julia’s supervision provide direct client representation, develop and litigate impact litigation, conduct housing rights trainings for community members and advocates, and engage in local, state, and federal law reform efforts aimed at improving the housing rights of survivors. Julia and students in the Housing Justice project represented the tenant in BHA v. YA, 482 Mass. 240 (2019), in which the Supreme Judicial Court decided affirmed a domestic violence survivor’s right to raise the Violence Against Women Act defense to a non-payment of rent eviction. From 2018-2020, Julia was the Dignity for All Staff Attorney at the ACLU of Southern California where she worked to safeguard the civil rights of people experiencing homelessness and advance the right to safe, affordable housing for all. Julia received her juris doctor from Northeastern University School of Law and she graduated from Brown University with a B.A. in Sociology.
In the News
Housing Clinic helps with landmark legislation to seal eviction records
For the first time in Massachusetts history, tenants will have the opportunity to seal an eviction record, following years of legislative advocacy by a coalition of tenant-rights activists spearheaded by Massachusetts Law Reform Institute (MLRI), and including the team at LSC’s Housing Law Clinic.
August 28, 2024
This vital investment will allow LSC to deepen our partnership with Casa Myrna and reach more survivors who face housing insecurity, eviction, and homelessness.
July 10, 2024
“At the Housing Law Clinic, we’re constantly learning from our clients. Specifically, how can we rectify the broader systems underpinning these individual injustices?”
April 3, 2024
“As a young boy, I could’ve never imagined that one day I’d be advocating for people facing similar challenges.”
February 23, 2024
