Culture & Trends
Taylor Swift matches Beyoncé's record for total VMA wins and urges fans to vote
Beyoncé and Swift each have a total of 30 VMAs to their names, though "Cowboy Carter" was notably shut out of any awards Wednesday night.
By Doha Madani
Taylor Swift matched Beyoncé's record for the most career MTV Video Music Awards on Wednesday night after winning seven awards in one evening. They now have 30 awards each.
The "Fortnight" singer walked into the show with 12 nominations, the most of any other artist. Before her first win of the night for song of the summer, Swift had 23 VMAs.
Beyoncé has a total of 30 VMAs, which include two with her former group Destiny's Child and two shared with her husband, according to the Guinness World Records . The "Texas Hold 'Em" singer did not win any new awards at Wednesday's show and was notably shut out of the Country Music Association Awards earlier this week.
Swift, 34, ended the night with a win for video of the year, her third consecutive year earning the award. She shouted out all her collaborators on the "Fortnight" video, as well as her boyfriend, Travis Kelce.
"This video seems really sad when you watch it, but it really was the most fun video to make. ... At the end of every take, I would always hear someone just cheering, like, 'Woo!' from across the studio, and that one person was my boyfriend, Travis," Swift said.
"Everything this man touches turns to happiness and fun, and I want to thank him for adding that to our shoot," she added.
She also took home Moon Person statues for best pop, best artist, best director, best collaboration and best editing.
At the end of her speech, she reminded everyone of age to vote in the presidential election.
Swift endorsed Vice President Kamala Harris after Tuesday's presidential debate. It was a highly anticipated moment as speculation grew over whether she would continue to speak up about politics.
She told followers on Instagram that she would be casting her vote for Harris and her running mate, Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz, after having researched their policy positions.
“I’m voting for @kamalaharris because she fights for the rights and causes I believe need a warrior to champion them,” Swift wrote. “I think she is a steady-handed, gifted leader and I believe we can accomplish so much more in this country if we are led by calm and not chaos.”
Swift signed her post “Childless Cat Lady” — a reference to language Trump’s running mate, Sen. JD Vance, R-Ohio, used to describe women without children. She paired the endorsement with a photo of Benjamin Button, one of her three cats, who was also featured in her Time Person of t he Year cover in December.
In her post, Swift encouraged fans to do their own research and learn more about early voting dates. She echoed the sentiment on the VMAs stage by once again urging fans to register to vote.
It was a big night for Swift after one of the biggest years of her life. She has been on tour since March 2023, performing more than 100 shows across the U.S., Europe, South America, Asia and Australia.
Swift is set to return to the stage in Miami next month, with additional shows in New Orleans and Indianapolis before closing out The Eras Tour in Canada.
