Hilton Honors American Express Card
These cards are best suited for travelers who prefer to fly with a specific airline or stay at a certain hotel chain. Maybe you live near a hub airport, frequent a destination where a specific airline offers the most direct flight options, or you enjoy the perks of a specific hotel’s loyalty program.
Instead of flexible rewards points or miles, you’ll earn points or miles within the airline or hotel rewards program, like Marriott Bonvoy points or American Airlines AAdvantage miles — and get a boosted rewards rate when you spend directly with the airline or hotel. These cards often offer a faster path to elite status tiers within these programs.
The added benefits of co-branded cards are designed to appeal to loyal airline or hotel customers. For example, your airline card may get you priority boarding, upgrades, free checked bags, and in-flight discounts. And your hotel card may offer early check-in or late checkout, annual free night awards, and on-site credits.
Co-branded travel cards aren’t for everyone, but they can add a lot to your travel experience if you have a strong airline or hotel preference.
How to choose the best travel credit card
Here are a few key details to look for in any new travel credit card:
1. Annual fee
No matter your budget, there’s a travel credit card with an annual fee that fits. You can find solid no annual fee options, like the Discover it® Miles general travel card or Hilton Honors American Express co-branded card. But there’s also The Platinum Card from American Express, which may set you back $695 per year (see rates and fees ) but comes with an abundance of valuable benefits and perks that can potentially give you even more value back each year.
The most important thing to keep in mind when deciding whether an annual fee is worth it for you is whether you can get enough out of the rewards and benefits to outweigh the cost — without spending more than you otherwise would or can afford.
2. Sign-up bonus
For new cardholders, a sign-up bonus can offer major first-year value. These bonuses may be worth anything from 10,000 to 100,000 bonus points or miles — which can translate to hundreds of dollars in rewards value.
However, you should compare the terms of the bonus to your own budget before you apply. For example, you may need to spend $4,000 within the first three months of opening your card before you can earn the 60,000 bonus points. If that’s not within your typical spending, be careful not to take on debt to meet the spending threshold. Accruing high interest on balances can quickly outpace even the best bonus.
One smart strategy is opening a new travel credit card when you’re booking a trip you’ve been saving for. You may already be prepared to spend more than usual, which can help you reach the bonus requirement faster. Plus, you can earn rewards on those travel purchases to put toward future trips.
3. Rewards
Rewards are one of the biggest reasons for many people to open a travel credit card.
Earning rewards with travel cards often works in one of two ways. You’ll either earn rewards on your everyday spending (groceries, gas stations, restaurants) to redeem toward future travel, or earn rewards on your travel spending to put toward future travel.
Some cards offer a combination of these rewards, but knowing which type of spender you are can be useful. If your monthly budget is largely dedicated to everyday spending, you may get more value from the former. But if you travel frequently and spend a lot of money on flights, hotels, and rental cars, you can quickly rack up more points with travel-based rewards categories.
4. Travel perks and benefits
Many travel rewards credit cards — especially the most premium cards with high annual fees — really shine when it comes to added perks and benefits. These benefits can help you offset the annual fee and save money each time you travel.
Take the $395 annual fee Capital One Venture X Rewards Credit Card , for example. Each year, you’ll get a $300 annual credit for bookings through Capital One Travel and 10,000 bonus miles (equal to $100 towards travel) on your account anniversary. Already, that’s enough to wipe out the annual cost — before accounting for any rewards and other benefits (like up to $100 in fee credits toward TSA PreCheck or Global Entry and Priority Pass Select airport lounge membership).
Just remember: Choose a card with benefits that help you save on purchases you would still have made otherwise. If you tend to arrive shortly before takeoff and don’t care about airport lounge access, you won’t actually get the $200 potential value from that benefit.
5. Travel insurance and protections
One unique aspect of travel credit cards is the protections you can get as a cardholder when you travel. Common protections offered by travel credit cards include trip cancellation and interruption insurance, car rental insurance, trip delay reimbursement, baggage delay insurance, access to emergency assistance services, and more.
As long as you pay for your travel expenses with the card (booking flights, hotels, tours, etc.) you can qualify for these travel protection benefits. Like any coverage, though, you should make sure to read the fine print of what your individual card offers. These benefits can vary greatly between different travel cards, so make sure to look for details in your card agreement.
More travel credit card tips
