Article
What does it mean to make a difference?
For me, it means helping someone in need. It was the summer after my freshman year, and I was excited to have a summer job on campus. One day, a friend asked me if I’d be interested in volunteering with him at the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter (HSHS). I had never worked at a homeless shelter before, but I thought this would be a great opportunity to get involved in the community. Before I knew it, we had filled out our applications, received our shift schedules, and made it to the shelter for our first shift.
That first day would be the first of many. I loved working at the shelter, and I found myself returning to the community, people, and—most importantly—the impact we made on the lives of our guests. In this blog, I hope to share just how much working at the shelter has meant to me and why I think you should get involved, too.
If you’re interested in community service and service learning at Harvard, read on to learn more!
Community Service at Harvard
Students at Harvard can engage with the greater community in many ways. From international research and study abroad to local service projects and programs, the service opportunities at Harvard are endless.
The majority of these community service opportunities are organized by the Phillips Brooks House Assocation (PBHA), the largest student-led service organization at Harvard.
Named after Reverend Phillips Brooks, a Harvard alumnus who supported community service work, PBHA was established in 1904 to promote “the ideal of piety, charity, and hospitality.” In its early years, the PBHA set up several service programs—including book drives, various international projects, and medical clinics—to address the community’s greatest needs. The PBHA also supported local families during the two World Wars with an emphasis on making a positive impact in the community.
Today, PBHA aims to promote resource accessibility and bridge the gap between communities and the resources they need. With a dedication to core values including care, social justice, stewardship, and personal growth, PBHA provides students with ways to get involved in the local Cambridge and Boston area, whether through mentoring programs like the Summer Urban Program and Harmony or housing programs like the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter and Y2Y. PBHA runs over 85 student-led service programs , totaling over 1,400 volunteers from both inside and outside of Harvard.
With that being said, if you’re interested in getting involved in the community at Harvard, checking out the PBHA is a great way to get started! Note that Harvard also hosts an annual Global Day of Service , where members of the Harvard community spend the day volunteering in over 50 community service projects. All of this is to say, if you’re interested in community service at Harvard, it will not be hard for you to find ways to get involved!
The Harvard Square Homeless Shelter (HSHS)
The summer after my freshman year, a good friend asked me if I would be interested in volunteering at the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter with him. I thought, “Why not?”
That summer, I ended up working a weekly Friday dinner shift, and it was amazing! When I first stepped into the shelter, I immediately noticed how welcoming and warm the environment was. I got to meet the other volunteers, and within the first few weeks, I had learned the ropes and knew everyone by name. I especially enjoyed chatting with our guests, hanging out with the staff and vols, and—of course—making tons of grilled cheeses and tuna melts each shift. Cooking was by far my favorite part of volunteering!
The next summer, I found an opportunity to get involved at the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter again. I was excited about the opportunity so I applied for a director position and was accepted. Working with a team of 6 other directors, 9 supervisors, and over 100 volunteers, we opened our doors on June 10, 2023, and—for the rest of the season—provided guests with everything from case management and housing resources to job application and legal paperwork support. Working at the shelter over 40 hours a week, I began to understand the impact our shelter made in the greater Boston area.
Every Sunday supply run reminded me of the basic resources our guests didn’t have. Every food item I purchased helped someone feel full for a night, every blanket we gave out kept someone warm for days, and the birthday cakes we whipped up were sometimes the first cakes some of our guests have had in years. I began to realize my privilege, and helping to confront our guests' challenges taught me about the difference I could make in someone's life. In many ways, my summer experience was humbling, but it was equally as rewarding.
The most meaningful part of my summer was getting to know the guests and hearing their stories. The more I chatted with them, the more I came to realize just how relatable their challenges were. Sometimes, I tried to step into their shoes and understand what they were going through. In the end, it was knowing we had helped a guest find permanent housing or get over a tough time that made it all worthwhile. I felt empowered in that I was a part of something far bigger, far greater than myself.
One Generation Passes, and Another One Arrives
Working at the shelter has taught me a few things: to appreciate what I have and listen. It has grounded me when times get rough and inspired me to look for the good in people and things. This, to me, is the power of community service. And this, to me, is what it means to make a difference.
To learn more about more about community service at Harvard, PBHA, and HSHS, check out these resources:
