(-0.52%)
Crypto & Bitcoin News
Cryptocurrency values surged above $60,000, reaching its highest point since 2021. Enthusiasts are waiting to see if it can achieve a new record high during the current rally.
Latest Crypto & Bitcoin News
Motley Fool
BlackRock's recent endorsement of Bitcoin highlights the cryptocurrency's potential to grow for years to come.
Bloomberg
Bitcoin Bucks Seasonal Jinx With One of Best September Gains
(Bloomberg) -- Bitcoin is on course for one of its biggest September gains as a global wave of interest-rate cuts, headlined by the US Federal Reserve, helps the largest digital asset to buck a seasonal jinx.Most Read from BloombergVanderbilt Leases Struggling NYC Seminary for Campus ExpansionClimate Migrants Stand to Overwhelm World’s MegacitiesNJ Transit, Amtrak Trains Delayed After Derailment Near NYCWhere Cargo Bikes Are Freeing Cities From Polluting VansExclusive Palo Alto Girls School Borr
Bloomberg
Mango Markets Is Latest Crypto Project to Settle SEC Charges
(Bloomberg) -- The entities operating the troubled decentralized finance project Mango Markets settled US Securities and Exchange Commission charges of selling unregistered securities and acting as an broker.Most Read from BloombergVanderbilt Leases Struggling NYC Seminary for Campus ExpansionClimate Migrants Stand to Overwhelm World’s MegacitiesNJ Transit, Amtrak Trains Delayed After Derailment Near NYCWhere Cargo Bikes Are Freeing Cities From Polluting VansExclusive Palo Alto Girls School Borr
CoinDesk
Swan Bitcoin Claims Ex-Employees 'Stole' its Mining Business at Tether’s Direction
Swan Bitcoin has filed suit against a group of former employees and consultants, alleging that they “hatched and executed a ‘rain and hellfire’ plan” to steal its lucrative bitcoin mining business with the help of Tether, Swan Bitcoin’s one-time ally and fundraising partner.
Reuters
US SEC charges Mango Markets with offering unregistered crypto token
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Friday charged cryptocurrency trading platform Mango Markets with unregistered sales of its digital asset token, which the regulator identified as a security. The SEC also settled charges against Mango Labs and Blockworks Foundation for failing to register as brokers, the agency said. Jurors in federal court in Manhattan earlier this year convicted a crypto trader of commodities fraud for rigging the Mango Markets exchange and stealing about $110 million from the platform.
FastCompany
U.S. Treasury alleges that Sergey Ivanov has laundered hundreds of millions of dollars worth of virtual currency for cyber criminals and darknet marketplace vendors for the past 20 years.
CoinDesk
When Bitcoin is dominated by major institutions (and Bitcoiners are asking for approval from presidential candidates) we are in danger of creating centralized decentralized finance, something Bitcoin’s founders never intended, says Jason Dehni, CEO of Credbull.
CoinDesk
Seven days after hitting the market, the T-REX 2X Long MSTR Daily Target ETF (MSTU) has become one of the most successful new exchange-traded funds (ETFs) on the market after attracting over $72 million.
TheStreet
As politics increasingly influence the crypto space, analysts share their insights on bitcoin's performance leading up to the 2024 election.
TheStreet
