Culture & Trends
Selena Gomez says she can't carry children due to health issues, saying having a baby would put her life at risk
Gomez, who has publicly shared her lupus diagnosis, said her conditions make it dangerous for her and the baby to carry a child to term.
Selena Gomez in Toronto on Sunday.KC Armstrong / Deadline via Getty Images
Sept. 9, 2024, 3:31 PM UTC
By Doha Madani
" Only Murders In The Building " star Selena Gomez revealed that her ongoing health issues make it dangerous for her to carry her own children should she plan to have them.
The actor and singer shared the information in an interview with Vanity Fair published Monday while discussing her role in the film "Emilia Pérez." Gomez, 32, plays a young mother in the crime-musical.
It was also brought up as Gomez was asked about her relationship with songwriter Benny Blanco , who told Howard Stern in May that he wants to have kids in the future.
Gomez said her chronic health issues, which include a lupus diagnosis she has shared publicly , make it risky for her to carry a baby to term.
"I haven’t ever said this but I unfortunately can’t carry my own children," Gomez said. "I have a lot of medical issues that would put my life and the baby’s in jeopardy. That was something I had to grieve for a while.”
Gomez did not go into detail about the complications that would make it difficult for her to safely carry her own children. She required a kidney transplant in 2017 and has undergone chemotherapy to treat her lupus.
Lupus is an autoimmune disease in which the immune system attacks the body and causes several complications, including organ damage, according to the Mayo Clinic .
Successful pregnancies for people with lupus are possible, but they come with increased complication risks, according to the Lupus Foundation of America . The complications include kidney problems, blood clots, high blood pressure, which can lead to preeclampsia, and increased risk of stillbirth.
"It is best to wait until your lupus is minimally active and your symptoms are under good control on medications that are safe to take during pregnancy," the foundation website says.
Gomez told Vanity Fair that while it's not the way she envisioned having children, she is in a "much better place" about the situation.
"I find it a blessing that there are wonderful people willing to do surrogacy or adoption, which are both huge possibilities for me," Gomez said. "It made me really thankful for the other outlets for people who are dying to be moms. I’m one of those people."
Gomez's own mother was adopted, she said. She added that it doesn't matter how her children come into her life, because "it’ll be my baby.”
