Culture & Trends
Beyoncé shut out of Country Music Award nominations
The singer has said her album "Cowboy Carter" was “born out of an experience that I had years ago where I did not feel welcomed" in the genre.
The Country Music Awards nominations were announced Monday , and one superstar was noticeably absent from the list: Beyoncé.
The singer released her first full-length country project "Cowboy Carter" in March.
Fans were disappointed by Monday’s snub and criticized the CMAs for excluding Beyoncé, who had said that she felt unwelcome in the country genre.
Beyoncé accepts the Innovator Award onstage during the 2024 iHeartRadio Music Awards at Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles on April 1, 2024.Kevin Mazur / Getty Images for iHeartRadio file
A representative for Beyoncé did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Beyoncé shared on Instagram earlier this year that the album was “born out of an experience that I had years ago where I did not feel welcomed.” Beyoncé said her experience motivated her to do a “deeper dive” into country music.
“The criticisms I faced when I first entered this genre forced me to propel past the limitations that were put on me,” she wrote in her Instagram post.
Many fans speculated that she was referring to the backlash she received after performing her song “Daddy Lessons” at the 2016 CMAs with the country group The Chicks.
Some fans were surprised that "Texas Hold 'Em," the lead single off of "Cowboy Carter," was not given a nod. Th e song b ecame the first b y a Black female artist to top Billboard's Hot Country Songs chart after it was released in February.
"Cowboy Carter" has been considered a tribute to Black musicians' contributions to country music. Many viewed the album as a reclamation of country, which has often been perceived as a genre for white men. Black artists hoped that the album would bring more attention and recognition to Black country music.
Beyoncé collaborated with Black country music artists such as pioneer Linda Martell and rising stars Brittney Spencer, Reyna Roberts, Tiera Kennedy, Tanner Adell and Shaboozey.
Shaboozey, who was featured on two tracks on "Cowboy Carter," received two nominations in this year's CMAs. His song "A Bar Song (Tipsy)" was nominated for single of the year and he was nominated for new artist of the year.
Shaboozey took to X on Monday to celebrate his nominations and praise Beyoncé.
"Thank you @Beyonce for opening a door for us, starting a conversation, and giving us one of the most innovative country albums of all time!" Shaboozey posted.
Meanwhile, Morgan Wallen led the nominations Monday, receiving eight nods. His collaboration with Post Malone, "I Had Some Help," was recently crowned Billboard's song of the summer based on chart performance.
Post Malone, who also released his first country album this year and collaborated with Beyoncé on "Cowboy Carter," received four nominations for "I Had Some Help."
