Health Care Strategy
Understand business strategy to facilitate health care success
Learn from HBS Professor Leemore Dafny how to align the principles of business strategy with the unique challenges and structures of health care organizations to capture value, define your mission, and lead your organization to success.
Read More >
Big Data for Social Good
Big social problems require big data solutions
Using real-world data and policy interventions as applications, this course will teach core concepts in economics and statistics and equip you to tackle some of the most pressing social challenges of our time.
Read More >
Innovations in Teamwork for Health Care
Don’t leave teaming up to chance. Create better teamwork through science.
In this course, experts from Harvard Business School and the T.H. Chan School of Public Health teach learners to implement a strategy for organizational teamwork in health care.
Read More >
Learner Testimonials
On Data Privacy and Technology
"The course was informative on both current and future data privacy and technological innovation trends—the need for data privacy without inhibiting innovation. The team and instructors prompt critical thinking while broadening the understanding of data privacy beyond the frontiers. At the end of the course, I concluded that there was a need for a mass cultural shift towards ethical use of technology."
Joanita Nagaba
Co-founder, ANJ Data Management Solutions Africa Ltd.
On Health Care Economics
“This is an amazing course. The professor did a fantastic job dissecting the complexities of healthcare into chewable chunks."
Howard H. Dinh, MD, FACC
Medical Director, Cardiac Services, Greater Sacramento
The Permanente Medical Group and Chief, Cardiology
Kaiser Permanente, South Sacramento
On Data Privacy and Technology
"I love the way the course is structured with real-world examples and the critical thinking sessions. It forces us to reflect upon what is happening around us. People who have an interest in cybersecurity, as well as those that would like to gain more general knowledge, would greatly benefit from this course."
Anand Narayan
Account Executive, Lenovo Canada
On Data Science Principles
"This is a topic that people in any industry should have at least basic knowledge of in order to create more efficient and competitive businesses, tools, and resources."
Carlos E. Sapene
Chief Executive Officer
On Data Science For Business
"This course had an amazing instructor, amazing examples, and an amazing user interface that made it easy for me to grasp the material and learn simultaneously with others around the world."
Shawn Carrington, Jr.
