Welcome
Thomas Hyry, Florence Fearrington Librarian of Houghton Library
Houghton Library opened in 1942 to provide a dedicated home for Harvard Library’s rapidly growing collections of rare books and manuscripts. Since then, it has become known as a research center and a setting for hands-on learning, exhibitions, and lectures and other public programs.
Houghton is not just a place that keeps books; it is a notable site of human activity that both reflects and contributes to the interconnectivity of Harvard Library as a whole.
Who We Are
Our Vision, Mission, and Values statements take Harvard Library’s as their point of departure, guiding the work we do today and forming our future aspirations.
Vision
We aspire to further knowledge and ignite curiosity and creativity in service of a more inclusive and just world.
Mission
To achieve our vision, we provide broad access to our physical and digital holdings and steward them in accordance with best practices for acquisition, description, and preservation. We contribute to Harvard’s research and instruction commitments while sharing our resources with wide-ranging communities. We pledge our public spaces, classrooms, and reading room as welcoming, potent learning environments, and contribute our labor to promoting diverse cultural perspectives and groundbreaking ideas.
Values
Welcome the World: We welcome everyone interested in our collections, programs, or expertise.
Demonstrate Respect: We respect and value each staff member’s contributions to our mission, and demonstrate the same consideration to our users and the larger social and professional communities of which we are a part.
Cultivate Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging: We actively work to diversify our collections, recruit and retain a diverse staff, and create an inclusive environment where all people feel they can participate fully.
Strive to Correct Structural Inequality: Acknowledging that our institution’s history is anchored in whiteness, cisgender maleness, heteronormativity, and economic privilege, we commit to interrogating societal inequities and facilitating critical engagement with our collections as part of the work of dismantling and correcting past and present systems of oppression.
Innovate Together: We collaboratively pursue innovative strategies within an evolving information landscape, exercising flexibility, adaptability, and open-mindedness.
Foster Growth: We invest in learning and reflection for the entire staff, recognizing that individual growth takes place over time and in the larger context of our profession.
What We Do
Provide access to special collections
Perform reference and research consultations
Teach with primary sources
Acquire, catalog, process, and preserve rare books, manuscripts, archives, and more
Digitize collection materials to preserve and make them more widely accessible
Support research at Harvard and beyond through four fellowship programs
Organize and host dynamic public programs, including exhibitions, lectures, poetry readings, and symposia
Publish scholarly and literary journals: Harvard Library Bulletin and Harvard Review
Maintain an active national and international loan program
Conduct tours of the building every Friday
