NBC Select 100
The 100 best moisturizers ranked, as tested by NBC Select editors
We spent 4+ months trying more than 135 formulas to find the absolute best face moisturizers on the market.
We tested reliable drugstore favorites, like Cerave and Cetaphil, as well as popular luxe options from Augustinus Bader and Tata Harper. Kara Birnbaum / NBC
May 14, 2024, 12:36 PM UTC / Updated Sept. 12, 2024, 5:47 PM UTC
By Lindsay Schneider and Select Staff
Consensus is rare — but when it comes to skin care, dermatologists agree: moisturizers, like sunscreen , are a critical component of any daily skin care routine . They not only prevent dryness and irritation, but they’re crucial for repairing and maintaining your skin barrier , according to experts we spoke with.
Finding the right formula for your skin type, texture and age may take a little trial and error, however. That’s why we set out to find the absolute best face moisturizers on the market right now. Our staff tested more than 135 formulas over almost five months and ranked our top 100. Below, I share more about our testing criteria and methodology for creating this list, followed by our official ranking of the 100 best face moisturizers of 2024.
How we chose our contenders
Our final testing list — of 135+ formulas — was based on a compilation of our previous reporting on the best moisturizers for dry skin and mature skin , night creams , skin barrier creams and our 2024 Wellness Award winners . Our team also submitted nominations for products they wanted to put to the test including formulas they already use and love, as well as brands they were curious to try. We did all the research and groundwork, so you don’t have to.
After testing every editor submitted both qualitative and quantitative feedback for each moisturizer.Vivian Le / NBC
When considering formulas, we focused on day and night creams, and excluded formulas with AHAs or BHAs, retinol and acids. We tested moisturizers with SPF and some without — we also tried some with vitamin C . For the most part, we focused on creams specifically designed for the face, though we did try some multiuse formulas you can use across your body, hands , and neck as well.
We also considered formulas across various price points and included as many brands as possible. We considered drugstore brands, like Cerave and Cetaphil, with as much thought and care as more expensive options from brands like SkinCeuticals and Biossance.
What we considered
While our team’s formula preferences differ — as it pertains to skin tone, texture and concerns — we asked each of our editors to consider the same eight criteria when evaluating a moisturizer. Every entry could earn a maximum of three points per category, as noted below:
We gave more points to thick, unscented formulas, while moisturizers that were sticky or oily lost points.Courtesy Zoe Malin
Scent: Is it fragrance free? If it had a scent, was it overwhelming, bothersome or irritating? We awarded more points to unscented options.
Consistency: We gave higher scores to thicker, less-diluted watery moisturizers. For gels, we also considered whether the formulas were cooling.
Absorption: Did the formula penetrate the skin, and if so, how quickly? Did it leave us oily or shiny? We prioritized fast-absorbing options.
Wear over time: We gave more points to formulas that kept our skin hydrated throughout the day and overnight. We subtracted points if it resulted in oiliness.
Packaging: We evaluated how well the pump or tub dispensed the products. Were there leaks? For pumps, did too much or too little come out at a time? For aluminum-tubed products, we also took note of whether the casing cracked or ripped, which can sometimes happen.
Value: Is this worth the cost in terms of both quality and size?
Effectiveness: Did the product solve or exacerbate a skin care issue we were having?
Rebuy factor: We received almost all of the moisturizers for free from brands as courtesy samples; we subsequently asked our editors to consider whether they would buy them on their own. And if so, was that conditional on having a gift card or discount available?
Methodology
Our editors paid close attention to the texture and scent of every formula.Courtesy Bianca Alvarez
Our team tried more than 135 moisturizers over four months in the depths of winter and early spring in New York City. (We received almost all of the moisturizers for free from brands as courtesy samples.) We considered every editor’s skin type and assigned them products that would not knowingly irritate them.
At least two editors tried every product. In doing so, every editor used each moisturizer for at least three days — both day and night — and then provided feedback by assigning points based on the above criteria as well as providing qualitative commentary. The higher the score, the better the product performed in our ranking.
After using quantitative data to get an initial rank based on average scores, we adjusted the placement of certain moisturizers based on editor notes, availability and price point. We tried to include brands only once on the list — only 13 brands have multiple entries.
Related
