Has the Recent Dip in Adobe Stock Created a Buying Opportunity?
Adobe (ADBE) stock plummeted after the company posted the earnings beat for FQ3 2024 on September 12. The stock is currently down 14% for the year, and this article is going to discuss whether the recent dip has created a buying opportunity. Adobe is known for its leading software products that help individuals and teams with graphic design, video editing, and web development, among many other use cases. It’s the product to go for if you’re a professional in the creativity and design businesses.
TipRanks
AppLovin (NASDAQ:APP) Stock Skyrockets 242% on Growth and AI Potential
AppLovin (APP) stock has surged even higher over the last month on the back of strong earnings data, a resurgent technology sector, and some broker upgrades. Over one year, the stock has gained 242%, reflecting incredible returns from its use of artificial intelligence as well as market trends. Despite this rise, personally, I’m still bullish on AppLovin, noting its impressive margins, great forecast for growth, and attractive valuation multiple. What Is AppLovin? Many investors may not have hea
Moneywise
John Paulson, the billionaire who famously made a fortune during the subprime mortgage crisis, hunkers down for more perceived market instability.
MarketWatch
The S 500 is flirting with what would be a rare accomplishment: rising 20% or more during two consecutive calendar years.
South China Morning Post
In Hong Kong's commercial real estate market, 'everybody has their own fair share of pain'
In the second of a two-part series, Jiaxing Li, Aileen Chuang and Salina Li explore the effects of high interest rates and other factors on the city's commercial property market. In the heart of Causeway Bay, a bustling Hong Kong shopping district that was once a more expensive retail destination than Fifth Avenue in Midtown Manhattan, a commercial building with shaky financing was recently thrust onto the market. Cubus, a mixed-use building hosting tenants including high-end sushi restaurants a
Bloomberg
Goldman, BlackRock Warn Europe’s Stock Rally Faces Tough Hurdles
(Bloomberg) -- European stocks face a series of hurdles to extend their 2024 rally after hitting another record high this week.Most Read from BloombergVanderbilt Leases Struggling NYC Seminary for Campus ExpansionClimate Migrants Stand to Overwhelm World’s MegacitiesNJ Transit, Amtrak Trains Delayed After Derailment Near NYCWhere Cargo Bikes Are Freeing Cities From Polluting VansExclusive Palo Alto Girls School Borrows $106 MillionMoney managers at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., BlackRock Inc. and No
Fortune
The 39-year-old also is accused of using Captcha solvers and hacking manuals to reset passwords.
Business Insider
Investors will be laser focused on the jobs market next week, with the ADP employment report on Wednesday and the September jobs report on Friday.
Business Insider
Shares of Hermes, Richemont, and LVMH soared this week on hopes China's new stimulus will lead to more spending.
Business Insider
