Featured Story Weekly Navigator Student Navigator
Soccer Coach Announces Fall 2024 Schedule
06 June 2024
YYYY Archives
Eight NJCAA Region 10 Division II matches highlight the Virginia Peninsula Community College men’s soccer schedule for fall 2024.
“It’s certainly different from last year,” said Kevin Darcy, who will be in his second season with the Gators.
The 2023 season was the first in program history, and the Gators went 2-4, including a victory in the New South Athletic Conference championship match. Darcy expects this year to be much tougher.
“We’ve got a challenging set, both home and away, which is attractive to be able to play at that level and be a part of that conference,” he said.
The Gators will play every region opponent – Wake Tech Community College (N.C.), Louisburg College (N.C.), Cape Fear Community College (N.C.), and Patrick & Henry Community College (Martinsville) – once at home and once on the road. The rest of the schedule consists of the region tournament in late October and early November, along with two non-conference matches and numerous scrimmages. They are allowed a maximum of 22 games and scrimmages, and Darcy has open dates he is looking to fill.
One of the non-conference matches is against Richard Bland College, which has won the Region 10 Division I title three consecutive years. Darcy is hoping the institutions can develop a friendly rivalry.
“At this point, I don’t think we can be considered a rival until we get toward that level,” he said. “But it will be good to play them … and see where we stand.”
Opponents Darcy has lined up for scrimmages are Regent University, Christopher Newport University’s club team, William & Mary’s club team, and the Virginia Legacy U19 team.
There is a meeting June 11 at 3 p.m. at the Hastings Hall annex for those interested in playing next semester, with another team meeting Aug. 5. The first official match, following three scrimmages, is scheduled for Aug. 24 at Frederick Community College (Md.).
“I’m looking forward to bringing in new players and having the returning guys be a bit more impactful,” Darcy said.
He would like a roster of 20 and anticipates having as many as 12 returning players.
Those interested in playing soccer or attending the June 11 meeting, can contact Darcy at DarcyK@vpcc.edu or athletics director Chris Moore at MooreC@vpcc.edu . For more on VPCC athletics and the 2024 soccer schedule, visit https://virginapeninsulacc.prestosports.com/landing/index .
Social Media
