Featured Story Student Navigator Weekly Navigator
Internship Became Dream Job for VPCC Alum Kerri Payne
23 August 2024
YYYY Archives
The path to a dream job for Kerri Payne began in the unlikeliest of places — a classroom. That’s where Payne and her Virginia Peninsula Community College classmates worked on a group project exploring their passion for graphic design.
Payne also learned of an internship during the class assignment and a life-changing opportunity arose. Today she’s enjoying her role as a marketing graphic artist at Universal Solutions International (USI) having started the full-time position on Aug. 5.
Flashback to spring 2024 at VPCC. The group project tasked Payne and her peers to design a visual campaign for eAviation & Drone Academy, a company involved in unmanned aircraft systems. It was a friendly competition that became much more for Payne.
"We were all really invested in the project, knowing that it was more than just a grade,” she recalled. “During the critique, Julie Young, the director of the unmanned curriculum at eAviation, came to announce the winners and mentioned an internship opportunity at USI. Randie Trestrail (a VPCC instructor in the Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences division) strongly encouraged me to apply."
Payne took the suggestion to heart, applied for the internship, and was accepted as a part-time marketing intern on June 3.
"I was thrilled to get the position," Kerri says. "It was my first real step into the professional world of graphic design."
During the two-month internship, Payne tested her skills and broadened her knowledge, working on various projects, including designing graphics for social media, creating flyers, editing websites and event photography. Videography was the most challenging but proved very rewarding.
“I didn’t have much experience with video, and to be honest, I was a little nervous about it,” she admitted. “But USI was incredibly supportive—they even paid for me to get my video certification at VPCC over the summer.”
Payne’s new videography skills quickly became an asset. Traveling to the Virginia Military Institute in Lexington to film drone and STEM camps was among the highlights of her internship.
"It was an amazing experience," she exclaimed. "I never imagined I would find such a passion for videography, but here I am, loving it!"
Beyond the technical skills, Payne learned the importance of communication in a professional setting.
“In school, your audience usually understands design principles, so there’s not much explaining to do,” she explained. “But in the real world, I found myself having to defend and explain my designs to clients who might not have that background. It was a vital learning curve for me.”
She adapted and thrived during the internship and her talent didn’t go unnoticed. As it was ending on Aug. 4, USI offered Payne a full-time position. She jumped at the offer.
“It was surreal,” she said. “This internship not only taught me so much but also opened the door to my dream job.”
Payne’s love for art and design started at a young age.
"If you had asked six-year-old Kerri what she wanted to be when she grew up, she would have said 'an artist' without hesitation," she shared.
Payne, who was homeschooled, was undecided about a career as she reached high school age. She considered fashion design and interior design. A job shadowing opportunity with an interior designer changed her focus.
"I looked over at their graphic designer working on a flyer and thought, 'That’s it. That’s what I want to do,'" she said noting the revelation led her to VPCC in fall 2022 for the Graphic Design and Media program.
"I wasn’t interested in a four-year college," she said. "But when I found out about VPCC’s two-year Graphic Design degree, I was sold. It was affordable, practical, and exactly what I wanted."
She is excited about the future in her new role at USI. As part of her five-year plan, she hopes to help small businesses develop their brand identities, design websites, and manage social media.
“One of my passions is helping small businesses,” she said. “There’s something so special about watching someone achieve their dream of owning a business, and I want to be a part of that.”
Family is a huge factor in Payne’s success. Their support coupled with her faith drives her.
"As an artist, you hear a lot of voices saying you can't make a career out of art. But my parents always quieted those voices and encouraged me to follow my passion," the Smithfield resident reflected. "I also believe that my creative gift is something that only the Lord could give me, and I hope to always stay humble and remember who created me."
As Payne continues, her academic and career experiences are reminders that determination, the right guidance and courage can turn a dream into reality.
