Discover the Latest Analyst and Technical Research for This Sector
Technical Assessment: Bullish in the Intermediate-Term
The stock market continues to crawl higher, with the S&P 500 (SPX), the S&P 100 (OEX), and the NYSE Composite printing new all-time highs almost daily, and the Nasdaq and the Nasdaq 100 (QQQ) moving ever closer to all-time highs. Yet it continues to amaze us that overall market sentiment/optimism hasn't shot to the moon. Yes some sentiment indicators have crossed over into extreme bullish territory, but many have not. This leaves us looking for reasons why.   Some of the sentiment indicators that are showing outright pessimism include Hedge Fund Exposure, the OEX Open Interest Ratio, the OEX Put/Call (P/C) Ratio, and Small Trader Put Buying. On the other end of the spectrum, the CBOE Equity-Only P/C ratio is one of a few indicators that are pretty far into optimistic territory. Meanwhile, the NAAIM Exposure Index, the ISE Equity Call/Put Ratio, the AAII Bull Ratio, the CNN Fear & Greed Index, and the Conference Board's Monthly Survey are showing optimism -- but not to an extreme degree. A coincident sentiment read, the Nasdaq 100 Combo Hedgers Position, is showing very low futures exposure by the smart-money commercial hedgers -- and is therefore a potential negative for stocks.  Market breadth remains quite bullish, with the SPX, OEX, QQQ, and S&P 400 advance-decline (AD) lines at or near all-time highs. In addition, 79% of stocks in the SPX are above their 200-day average; for the OEX, it's at 88%; and for the QQQ, it's at 64%. While we would prefer these readings to all be above 70%, the QQQ AD line reached an all-time high before price. (Mark Arbeter, CMT)
Argus• yesterday
Daily – Vickers Top Insider Picks for 09/27/2024
The Vickers Top Insider Picks is a daily report that utilizes a proprietary algorithm to identify 25 companies with compelling insider purchase histories based on transactions over the past three months.
Argus• yesterday
Daily – Vickers Top Buyers & Sellers for 09/27/2024
The Vickers Top Buyers & Sellers is a daily report that identifies the five companies the largest insider purchase transactions based on the dollar value of the transactions as well as the five companies the largest insider sales transactions based on the dollar value of the transactions.
Argus• yesterday
Analyst Report: Prudential plc
Originally established as Prudential Mutual Assurance, Investment, and Loan Association in 1848, Prudential plc has moved on a lot since then. Set up to sell life insurance and loans to the middle and then the industrializing and urbanizing working classes, the company subsequently diversified into Europe and then North America with the purchase of Jackson National Life in around 1985. During its time as owner of Jackson, Prudential focused on building out a simple chassis-style product portfolio where customers could choose a variety of add-ons. The company also became renowned for its focus on building requisite internal capabilities to support its strong product offerings, including compelling technology and a large and well-trained sales personnel.
Rating
