You'll have two monthly home loan payments, not just one
A variable interest rate means your rate could rise if market rates increase
Your home is collateral for paying off your HELOC, which means there is a risk of foreclosure if you don't make payments
Monthly payments will increase during the repayment period, when you switch from interest-only payments to also paying off the principal
Who should consider a HELOC?
Before you apply for a HELOC, you should consider these questions:
Is your credit score high enough? Many lenders expect HELOC borrowers to have a very good or excellent credit score .
Do you have enough equity in your home? Most lenders expect HELOC borrowers to have at least 15% to 20% equity in their home. The lender may require an appraisal of the value of your home to determine how much equity you have.
Is your debt level too high? Lenders use your debt-to-income (DTI) ratio to assess whether your income is adequate for managing your debt. While these ratios differ by lender, if your DTI is higher than 43%, you may need to increase your income or pay off some other debt you owe to qualify for a HELOC.
Can you prove stable income and a strong history of on-time payments? You'll need to provide copies of your recent pay stubs, IRS Form W-2s, income tax returns, or other documents to demonstrate how much you earn.
Do you need access to extra cash from time to time to make home improvements or repairs, consolidate debt, or for other purposes?
Are you confident you can afford the monthly payments? If interest rates go up, your monthly payment may be significantly higher than you expected. Even if rates don’t rise, you’ll need to be able to pay interest charges and other fees.
How comfortable are you with risk? If your financial situation changes or your home's value decreases, your lender may lower your credit limit or curtail your ability to draw additional funds, not to mention the risk of losing your home if you fail to make payments.
How to apply for a HELOC
To get a HELOC, choose a mortgage lender and provide all the necessary documents for an application, such as bank statements and tax returns. You can use the same lender that gave you the original mortgage loan, but you don't have to.
You'll need to schedule a home appraisal so the lender knows how much your house is worth, and thus the amount of equity you have to borrow from. When you close on the HELOC with your lender, you'll start the draw period.
HELOC alternatives
If you're curious about alternatives to a HELOC, you may want a cash-out refinance, home equity loan, personal loan or personal line of credit, or home equity conversion mortgage, among other options.
Cash-out refinance
A cash-out refinance replaces your current home mortgage with a new mortgage that has a higher balance. A portion of your new loan is used to pay off your existing loan. The remainder, after closing costs are paid, is provided to you in a lump sum.
Read more: Cash-out refinance vs. HELOC
Home equity loan
A home equity loan is a second mortgage with a fixed loan amount and repayment term. This type of loan typically has a fixed rate and fixed monthly payment.
Dig deeper: HELOC vs. home equity loan
Personal loan
A personal loan or line of credit is a loan that's not secured by your home or a car, though it may be secured by other assets that you own. This type of loan typically has a higher interest rate, a fixed term for the loan, and an adjustable rate for the line.
HECM
A home equity conversion mortgage (HECM), also called a " reverse mortgage ," allows older homeowners to borrow against their equity. This type of loan generally doesn't require repayment until the borrower dies, moves out of their home, or sells their home.
If a HELOC sounds like a good choice for your needs, you may be ready to talk with a mortgage lender about applying for this type of credit line.
Home equity line of credit FAQs
Is a home equity line of credit the same as a HELOC?
Yes, HELOC stands for home equity line of credit.
What is a disadvantage of a home equity line of credit?
The biggest disadvantage of a home equity line of credit (HELOC) is probably that many lenders only offer HELOCs with adjustable rates, not fixed rates. This means your rate could increase later if market rates are trending upward overall.
Is it hard to get a HELOC?
It's relatively easy to get a HELOC, as long as you have enough equity in your home to qualify.
Do you pay back a HELOC?
Yes, you pay back a HELOC, since it is a type of second mortgage. Once your draw period is over and you cannot borrow money anymore, you'll enter the repayment period, which can be as long as 20 years. You'll pay interest on your HELOC along with the principal.
Is HELOC interest tax-deductible?
HELOC interest may be tax-deductible if you use the money for specific expenses, such as a home renovation.
What are typical terms and interest rates for a HELOC?
A HELOC term can last between five and 30 years. HELOC rates depend on your term length and financial profile, but you can expect to pay around 8.50% to 9.50% right now.
Can you use a HELOC for anything?
Yes, there is no limitation on how you can use the money from your HELOC. Just remember that the interest paid on a HELOC is only tax-deductible if it's used for specific expenses like home improvements.
Copyright © 2024 Yahoo. All rights reserved.
POPULAR QUOTES
