Effective March 26, 2014
Complaints regarding content posted on the LinkedIn website
LinkedIn respects the intellectual property rights of others and desires to offer a platform which contains no content that violates those rights. Our User Agreement requires that information posted by Members be accurate, lawful and not in violation of the rights of third parties. To promote these objectives, LinkedIn provides a process for submission of complaints concerning content posted by our Members. Our policy and procedures are described and/or referenced in the sections that follow.
Please note that whether or not we disable access to or remove content, LinkedIn may make a good faith attempt to forward the written notification, including the complainant’s contact information, to the Member who posted the content and/or take other reasonable steps to notify the Member that LinkedIn has received notice of an alleged violation of intellectual property rights or other content violation. It is also our policy, in appropriate circumstances and in our discretion, to disable and/or terminate the accounts of Members, or groups as the case may be, who infringe or repeatedly infringe the rights of others or otherwise post unlawful content.
Please note that any notice or counter-notice you submit must be truthful and must be submitted under penalty of perjury. A false notice or counter-notice may give rise to personal liability. You may therefore want to seek the advice of legal counsel before submitting a notice or a counter-notice.
Claims regarding copyright infringement
Notice of Copyright Infringement:
Pursuant to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (17 U.S.C. § 512), LinkedIn has implemented procedures for receiving written notification of claimed infringements. LinkedIn has also designated an agent to receive notices of claimed copyright infringement. If you believe in good faith that your copyright has been infringed, you may complete and submit a Notice of Copyright Infringement form , or otherwise provide a written communication which contains:
An electronic or physical signature of the person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of the copyright interest;
A description of the copyrighted work that you claim has been infringed;
A description specifying the location on our website of the material that you claim is infringing;
Your email address and your mailing address and/or telephone number;
A statement by you that you have a good faith belief that the disputed use is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; and
A statement by you, made under penalty of perjury, that the information in your notice is accurate and that you are the copyright owner or authorized to act on the copyright owner’s behalf.
Please submit your notice to LinkedIn Corporation’s Copyright Agent as follows:
Or contact us by mail at:
LinkedIn Corporation
