Main content start
Welcome to Stanford Undergrad
Stanford Undergrad is your guide to academics and educational opportunities offered through the Office of the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education and our campus partners.
Intisar Alkhatib
"I have never felt more at home than I have at LSP. It fundamentally shifted me, from my conceptualization of healthy love to my feeling of belonging at Stanford."
Meet some of our new LSP students
Jay Hamilton appointed vice provost for undergraduate education
Jay Hamilton, the Hearst Professor of Communication and director of the Stanford Journalism Program, has been appointed vice provost for undergraduate education, effective Jan. 1, 2025. Hamilton, chair of the Department of Communication and First-Year Requirements Governance Board, has taught and led at Stanford since 2013. He is looking forward to building on VPUE’s mission and core programs such as COLLEGE.
Read the full Stanford Report story
Learning Different Approaches to Sustainability
Stanford professors William Barnett and Chris Field have one message to their students: Tackling the environmental crisis will require that each of us take on a leadership role, now. Their class, COLLEGE 106: Environmental Sustainability: Global Predicaments and Possible Solutions, was one of seven different courses COLLEGE students could choose from as part of the spring quarter theme, Global Perspectives.
More than a class—it's an experience!
What is SoCo?
The immersive, three-week residential classes often include field trips and hands-on learning outside the classroom, creating a connection with your SoCo faculty and life-long friendships.
Focus on Creativity
What is Arts Intensive?
Arts Intensive offers students time to focus on a single, project-based arts class with campus faculty and guest artists. The courses provide the unique opportunity to create in small class sizes outside of the pressures of the regular academic year.
Speaking and Writing Support
Hume Center
The Hume Center for Writing and Speaking works with all Stanford students to help them develop rich and varied abilities in every aspect of writing and oral communication. Find out what to expect when you see a tutor and how to schedule an appointment.
What to Expect
The Advising Resource Toolkit
These advising tools may be used cooperatively during an advising conversation or you may use them on your own, to help you prepare for a conversation with your academic advisor. They are intended to:
help frame your reflections throughout your time at Stanford
guide your strategic thinking if you face challenges or difficulty
facilitate your academic planning and intellectual development
support you as you consider post-undergraduate education
Bing Overseas Studies Program
Isabella Saracco, History
This photo was taken in front of Castle Mareccio, in Bolzano/Bolzen, a city in the South Tyrol region of Italy. I visited on one of the long weekends of the quarter; getting to travel the country and learn about the cultural diversity within Italy was one of my favorite parts of the program. South Tyrol was incredibly different from Florence--it's a bilingual region, and everything was in both Italian and German!
Explore Overseas Studies
New Student Pitch Competition!
Students, join a unique pitch competition for accolades, prizes, and opportunities to pursue your idea. The topic? Ideas to forge a better frontier in the landscape of AI and cybersecurity/privacy. Top applications will be invited to present live to an expert panel at this year’s Oct. 17 CyberFest event at Stanford University. Apply by Oct. 4, 2024.
View rules, prizes, and details, and apply
Web Accessibility
Stanford University is committed to providing an online environment that is accessible to everyone, including individuals with disabilities. Having trouble accessing any of this content due to a disability? Learn more about accessibility at Stanford and report accessibility issues
