Discover the Latest Analyst and Technical Research for This Sector
Morningstar | A Weekly Summary of Stock Ideas and Developments in the Companies We Cover
In this edition, trucking sector keeps on trucking; soft landing in sight for US economic outlook; a world of possibilities for Universal Music Group; and Accenture Plc, Koninklijke Philips NV, and Smartsheet.
Morningstar• 9 hours ago
Analyst Report: Grab Holdings Limited
Founded in 2012, Grab provides ride-sharing services, food and grocery delivery, and financial services (payments, consumer loans, and enterprise offerings) in eight Southeast-Asian countries through its mobile platform. The company partners with merchants and riders, connecting them with consumers while charging commission to both sides. Grab has a leading market share in and derives 89% of its revenue from its core businesses, ride-sharing and food delivery. Singapore and Malaysia contributed 58% of revenue as of end-2021. Grab’s main competitors in Southeast Asia are Foodpanda and Gojek, the ride-sharing arm of GoTo. Its financial services business is still in its nascent stage and provides minimal revenue currently. The company now also generates advertising revenue.
Rating
Morningstar• 13 hours ago
Analyst Report: MongoDB, Inc.
Founded in 2007, MongoDB is a document-oriented database with nearly 33,000 paying customers and well past 1.5 million free users. MongoDB provides both licenses as well as subscriptions as a service for its NoSQL database. MongoDB’s database is compatible with all major programming languages and is capable of being deployed for a variety of use cases.
Rating
Morningstar• 13 hours ago
Analyst Report: Rapid7, Inc.
Founded in 2000, Rapid7 is a cybersecurity company that began providing vulnerability management solutions. It has, however, expanded its portfolio to provide extended detection and response; security information and event management; cloud security, threat intelligence, and application security; and security orchestration, automation, and response. The Boston-based company went public in 2015.
Rating
