The latest news and analysis about the health of the US economy.
Economic News
Moody’s downgrades Israel again as economic costs of war mount
(Bloomberg) -- Israel was downgraded for the second time this year by Moody’s Ratings as the economic costs mount from almost 12 months of fighting in Gaza and an worsening conflict with Hezbollah.Most Read from BloombergVanderbilt Leases Struggling NYC Seminary for Campus ExpansionClimate Migrants Stand to Overwhelm World’s MegacitiesNJ Transit, Amtrak Trains Delayed After Derailment Near NYCWhere Cargo Bikes Are Freeing Cities From Polluting VansExclusive Palo Alto Girls School Borrows $106 Mi
Associated Press Finance
A federal judge in Texas will hear arguments over Boeing's plea deal in a 737 Max case
A federal judge on Friday ordered a hearing next month over Boeing's agreement to plead guilty to conspiracy in connection with the 737 Max jetliner, two of which crashed, killing 346 people.  U.S. District Court Judge Reed O'Connor set a hearing for Oct. 11 in Fort Worth, Texas.  Boeing is accused of misleading regulators who approved minimal, computer-based training for Boeing 737 pilots before they could fly the Max. Boeing wanted to prevent regulators from requiring training in flight simulators, which would have raised the cost for airlines to operate the plane.
Bloomberg
Stocks Rally for the Week on Fed Rate-Cut Optimism: Markets Wrap
(Bloomberg) -- US stocks gained for a third consecutive week — despite languishing on Friday — as investors were repeatedly reassured that the economy is cooling without falling off a cliff.Most Read from BloombergVanderbilt Leases Struggling NYC Seminary for Campus ExpansionClimate Migrants Stand to Overwhelm World’s MegacitiesNJ Transit, Amtrak Trains Delayed After Derailment Near NYCWhere Cargo Bikes Are Freeing Cities From Polluting VansExclusive Palo Alto Girls School Borrows $106 MillionTr
Reuters
Fed should cut interest rates 'gradually,' Musalem says
St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank President Alberto Musalem on Friday said the U.S. central bank should cut interest rates "gradually" after what he called the "strong and clear message" of a half-point interest-rate cut last week, which he said he supported. For me, it's about easing off the brake at this stage.
Bloomberg
Oil Rises After Israel Says It Hit Hezbollah’s Main Headquarters
(Bloomberg) -- Oil jumped after Israel said its military struck Hezbollah’s main headquarters in southern Beirut, ramping up tensions in the Middle East.Most Read from BloombergVanderbilt Leases Struggling NYC Seminary for Campus ExpansionClimate Migrants Stand to Overwhelm World’s MegacitiesNJ Transit, Amtrak Trains Delayed After Derailment Near NYCWhere Cargo Bikes Are Freeing Cities From Polluting VansExclusive Palo Alto Girls School Borrows $106 MillionWest Texas Intermediate advanced almost
Associated Press Finance
Federal government postpones sale of floating offshore wind leases along Oregon coast
The federal government postponed an auction of floating offshore wind leases off the Oregon coast on Friday after developers said they wouldn't bid and the state's governor asked that all leasing activities stop.  The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management did not set a new date for the sale.  Oregon Gov. Tina Kotek wrote to the agency shortly before the announcement, asking it to terminate the current auction, Oregon Public Broadcasting reported.
Bloomberg
Fed-Fueled Bonds on Track for Longest Run of Gains Since 2010
(Bloomberg) -- Treasuries are poised for their longest monthly winning streak in 14 years as traders bet on more half-point reductions in interest rates as the Federal Reserve aims for a rare soft landing. Most Read from BloombergVanderbilt Leases Struggling NYC Seminary for Campus ExpansionClimate Migrants Stand to Overwhelm World’s MegacitiesNJ Transit, Amtrak Trains Delayed After Derailment Near NYCWhere Cargo Bikes Are Freeing Cities From Polluting VansExclusive Palo Alto Girls School Borrow
Reuters
Clock is ticking for US recession, return of Fed's QE, says black swan fund
The first interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve signals a U.S. recession is imminent and a dramatic drop in financial markets could once again force the U.S. central bank to come to the rescue by buying bonds, said tail-risk hedge fund Universa.  The Fed said last week it started cutting rates to recalibrate monetary policy and to maintain strength in the labor market.  But for Mark Spitznagel, chief investment officer and founder of Universa, this was the start of an aggressive reduction in interest rates, as a highly indebted U.S. economy, which has so far defied expectations, will soon crack under the weight of interest rates still at historical highs.
Bloomberg
US Consumer Sentiment Rises to Five-Month High on Economy Views
(Bloomberg) -- Sign up for the Economics Daily newsletter to discover what's driving the global economy.Most Read from BloombergVanderbilt Leases Struggling NYC Seminary for Campus ExpansionClimate Migrants Stand to Overwhelm World’s MegacitiesNJ Transit, Amtrak Trains Delayed After Derailment Near NYCWhere Cargo Bikes Are Freeing Cities From Polluting VansExclusive Palo Alto Girls School Borrows $106 MillionUS consumer sentiment continued to rise in late September, reaching a five-month high on
Bloomberg
Fed’s Favored Inflation Gauge, Consumer Spending Barely Rise
(Bloomberg) -- Sign up for the Economics Daily newsletter to discover what's driving the global economy.Most Read from BloombergVanderbilt Leases Struggling NYC Seminary for Campus ExpansionClimate Migrants Stand to Overwhelm World’s MegacitiesNJ Transit, Amtrak Trains Delayed After Derailment Near NYCWhere Cargo Bikes Are Freeing Cities From Polluting VansExclusive Palo Alto Girls School Borrows $106 MillionThe Federal Reserve’s preferred measure of underlying US inflation and household spendin
