Weekly Navigator Featured Story Student Navigator
Cross Country Program Announces Meets for Inaugural Season
29 July 2024
The inaugural season of cross country at Virginia Peninsula Community College will consist of five meets. For the first season of outdoor track and field, which was held in the spring, there were four events.
Andres McIntyre, who coaches both sports, likes that progression.
“(It’s) doing those little things to keep making noise and having to lay down the foundation,” he said. “The highlight of the schedule is getting them, once again, exposed to a new season.”
The team’s first event is the Richmond XC Festival at Pole Green Park in Mechanicsville on Aug. 31. That is followed by the Lancer Home Open at Longwood University in Farmville on Sept. 7, the Christopher Newport University Invitational in Newport News on Sept. 13, the Hornet Harrier Invitational at Shenandoah University in Winchester on Sept. 28, and the Sweet Briar Invitational at Sweet Briar College on Oct. 4.
He's excited to open the season at Pole Green Park, which is just outside Richmond.
“Their course is very good. It brings in a lot of people. From my experience with it, it’s definitely well-known,” he said. “I feel like that will be a good one just to get the school out there, getting seen by multiple schools so they realized we have a cross country program.”
McIntyre expects to have some of the same athletes for cross country that he had for track and field, but it will be an adjustment.
“Cross country is totally different,” he said. “You are looking at people competing in one race and that’s it.”
One thing that has surprised him is the variety in the length of races at the meets.
“I assumed only that there was an 8K for guys and a 5K or 6K for girls. That was my assumption from my experience,” said McIntyre, who participated in track and field and cross country at Virginia State University.
However, his athletes will be able to compete in races ranging from 4K to 8K.
“I talked to the team about that and said if there’s a shorter distance, attack it,” he said.
Participating in a meet and having the opportunity to register a time in a collegiate race is important for the athletes and VPCC.
“Just getting them out there, I think, is going to be very good,” he said.
Anyone interested in joining the team can contact McIntyre at mcintyre@vpcc.edu or athletics director Chris Moore at moorec@vpcc.edu . For more information on the athletics program at VPCC, visit https://virginapeninsulacc.prestosports.com .
Schedule:
Aug. 31 Richmond XC Festival, Pole Green Park, Mechanicsville
Sept. 7 Lancer Home Open, Longwood University, Farmville
Sept. 13 CNU Invitational, Newport News
Sept. 28 Hornet Harrier Invitational, Shenandoah University, Winchester
Oct. 4 Sweet Briar Invitational
Social Media
