Discover the Latest Analyst and Technical Research for This Sector
Analyst Report: Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV
Anheuser-Busch InBev is the largest brewer in the world and one of the world's top five consumer product companies, as measured by EBITDA. The company's portfolio contains six of the top 10 beer brands by volume, according to Euromonitor, and we estimate it distributes 23 brands with retail sales over $1 billion. AB InBev was created by the 2008 merger of Belgium-based InBev and US-based Anheuser-Busch. The firm holds a 62% economic interest in Ambev and in 2016 it acquired SABMiller.
Rating
Morningstar• 14 hours ago
Analyst Report: Costco Wholesale Corporation
Costco operates a membership-based, no-frills retail model, predicated on offering a select product assortment in bulk quantities at bargain prices. The firm avoids maintaining costly product displays by keeping inventory on pallets and limits distribution expenses by storing its inventory at point of sale in the warehouse. Given Costco’s frugal cost structure, the firm is able to price its merchandise below competing retailers, driving high sales volume per warehouse and allowing the retailer to generate strong profits on thin margins. Costco operates over 600 warehouses in the United States and enjoys over 60% market share in the domestic warehouse club industry. Internationally, Costco operates another 270 warehouses, primarily in markets such as Canada, Mexico, Japan, and the UK.
Rating
Morningstar• yesterday
Analyst Report: General Mills, Inc.
General Mills, based in Minneapolis, is a leader in the packaged food industry. The company's major brands include Wheaties, Cheerios, Haagen-Dazs, Betty Crocker, Pillsbury, Old El Paso, Progresso, Nature Valley, Lucky Charms, Annie's, and Blue Buffalo. 'Accelerate Platforms' include Snack Bars, Ice Cream, Mexican Food, and Natural & Organic. General Mills has approximately 34,000 employees. The shares are a component of the S&P 500.
Rating
Argus• 4 days ago
Market Update: ATO, GIS, SKX
Stocks are green. There's still plenty of euphoria from the Fed's supersized rate cut last week. Fed officials are also out and about selling the monetary policy strategy. There is a full plate of economic data being served up this week, including inflation and GDP. Now that the monetary easing has started, Wall Street is wondering what's next for November when the Fed meets again.
Argus• 4 days ago
