About Virginia Peninsula Community College
Department of Police, Safety, and Security
Emergencies: Dial or Text 911Non-Emergency Requests for Service: 757-825-2732Behavioral Health Crisis/Suicide Crisis: Dial or Text 988 (Suicide and Crisis Lifeline)
988 is free and confidential support for people in distress, prevention and crisis resources for you or your loved ones, and best practices for professionals in the United States.
In any emergency, regardless of your location, dial or text 911 for police, fire, or emergency medical services.
Learn More About the Department of Police, Safety, and Security See Something, Say Something Behavioral Health and Wellness Assistance Share Your Feedback (Comments, Compliments, Concerns, Commendations, or Complaints) Department of Police, Safety, and Security Mission Statement Department of Police, Safety, and Security Vision Statements Law Enforcement Code of Ethics
Learn More About the Department of Police, Safety, and Security
The Virginia Peninsula Community College Department of Police, Safety, and Security deploys a combination of police officers, safety, and security officers and is committed to establishing and maintaining an environment that facilitates a culture of safety, security, risk and hazard mitigation, and emergency preparedness which supports educational delivery, student learning, creative collaboration, and active engagement opportunities for students, faculty, staff and visitors of our College.
All Virginia Peninsula Community College police and security officers are fully certified by Virginia’s Department of Criminal Justice Services. Our police officers are sworn to serve, protect, and preserve the public peace, protect life and property, and uphold Virginia’s laws, and have the same authority and responsibilities as all other law enforcement officers in the Commonwealth of Virginia. Our security officers are charged with enforcing the College's regulations and serving as an additional resource of the Police, Safety, and Security Department.
All department members are responsible for the provision of services that identify and mitigate threats, hazards, and risks through professional development, exercises, planning, response, and the employment of best practices in campus/community policing, crime prevention, safety and security practices, routine visibility, campus and community collaboration. We are dedicated to your well-being.
See Something, Say Something (What to Report, When, and How)
Report emergencies, life threatening incidents, and active criminal activity by immediately dialing or texting 911.
Report non-emergency suspicious activities, past crimes, or make requests for services by calling the Department of Police, Safety, and Security at 757-825-2732.
All academic, student and faculty concerns of a non-emergency and non-behavioral health nature should be reported through the Maxient Reporting System .
THE MAXIENT REPORTING SYSTEM IS NOT MONITORED 24/7 AND SHOULD NOT BE USED TO SUBMIT REPORTS THAT REQUIRE IMMEDIATE OR EMERGENT ASSISTANCE.
Return to Top
Behavioral Health and Wellness Assistance
If you or someone you know is experiencing a behavioral health crisis or is suicidal, please dial or text 988. 988 is the National Suicide and Crisis Lifeline. 988 is free and confidential support for people in distress, prevention and crisis resources for you or your loved ones, and best practices for professionals in the United States.
Virginia Peninsula Community College students have FREE, 24/7 access to virtual care services with TimelyCare — the virtual health and well-being platform from TimelyCare, designed for college students. Students do not need insurance to access TimelyCare services. Download the app here .
Return to Top
Share Your Feedback
We Want to Hear from You: Please take a moment to share your feedback with our department. This feedback form is for sharing feedback (comments, compliments, concerns, commendations, or complaints) for the Department of Police, Safety, and Security. DO NOT use this form to report incidents, this is not a link to the Maxient Reporting System. Feedback submissions are NOT monitored 24/7.
Return to Top
Department of Police, Safety, and Security Mission Statement
The Virginia Peninsula Community College Department of Police, Safety, and Security protects the College faculty, staff, students, visitors, and property by providing law enforcement and related services, by promoting community involvement, and excellent customer services while supporting the College’s mission. Maintain a safe and secure environment for all the college community and ensure the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the rules and regulations of the college are upheld.
Return to Top
Department of Police, Safety, and Security Vision Statements
The administration and operation of the Virginia Peninsula Community College Department of Police, Safety, and Security will execute to provide essential law enforcement, public safety, and related services to the college community while using the most efficient and effective methods available, maintain establishing professional standards, and optimizing community support.
The Virginia Peninsula Community College Department of Police, Safety, and Security vision is to set up and keep relationships within the community we serve.
Foster a safe and prospering environment through education, prevention, and enforcement efforts.
Value the diversity that exists among our fellow employees and citizens and not discriminate because of personal characteristics.
Foster confidentially and treat all official business with respect and the proper levels of privacy.
The Virginia Peninsula Community College Department of Police, Safety, and Security will be an effective and responsive police department highly trusted by the College community and viewed as a positive example while serving faculty, staff, students, and visitors.
The Virginia Peninsula Community College Department of Police, Safety, and Security will constantly improve and enhance the image of our police department through services, performances, appearances, conduct, and reputation.
Return to Top
Law Enforcement Code of Ethics
As a law enforcement officer, my fundamental duty is to serve the community; to safeguard lives and property; to protect the innocent against deception, the weak against oppression or intimidation, and the peaceful against abuse or disorder; and to respect the constitution rights of all liberty, equality, and justice.I will keep my private life unsullied as an example to all and will behave in a manner that does not bring discredit to me or to my agency.
I will maintain courageous calm in the face of danger, scorn, or ridicule; develop self-restraint; and be constantly mindful of the welfare of others. Honest in thought and deed both in my personal and official life, I will be exemplary in obeying the laws and the regulations of my department. Whatever I see or hear of a confidential nature or that is confided to me in my official capacity will be kept ever secret unless revelations are necessary in the performance of my duty.
I will never act officiously or permit personal feelings, prejudices, political beliefs, aspirations, animosities, or friendships to influence my decisions. With no compromise for crime and with relentless prosecution of criminals, I will enforce the law courteously and appropriately without fear or favor, malice or ill will, never employing unnecessary force or abuse and never accepting gratuities.
I recognize the badge of my office as a symbol of public faith, and I accept it as a public trust to be held as long as I am true to the ethics of police service. I will never engage in acts of corruption or bribery, nor will I condone such acts by other police officers. I will cooperate with all legally authorized agencies and their representatives in the pursuit of justice.
I know that I alone am responsible for my own standard of professional performance and will take every reasonable opportunity to enhance and improve my level of knowledge and competence.
I will constantly strive to achieve objectives and ideas, dedicating myself before God to my chosen profession…. law enforcement.
