Culture & Trends
Chester Bennington's son slams Linkin Park for replacing his late father with Emily Armstrong
Band co-founder Mike Shinoda had “quietly erased my father’s life and legacy in real time ... during international suicide prevention month,” Jaime Bennington wrote.
Chester Bennington of Linkin Park performs in 2007.Junko Kimura / Getty Images file
Sept. 10, 2024, 3:42 PM UTC
/ Source: Variety
By Variety
Jaime Bennington, the son of late Linkin Park lead singer Chester Bennington , has criticized the band’s decision to bring in Emily Armstrong as their new vocalist .
Armstrong, who co-founded the rock band Dead Sara, made her Linkin Park debut in a live performance Sept. 5 alongside new drummer Colin Brittain. The highly-anticipated reveal came with the news of the group’s first new music release since the death of frontman Chester Bennington, a new album and a supporting tour dubbed “From Zero.” Bennington died in 2017 by suicide.
Jaime voiced his disapproval via Instagram on Monday, writing in a Story post that Linkin Park co-founder Mike Shinoda had “quietly erased my father’s life and legacy in real time… during international suicide prevention month.”
Emily Armstrong of Linkin Park performs Thursday in Burbank, Calif.Timothy Norris / Getty Images
He authored multiple, lengthy paragraphs that highlighted Armstrong’s past, referencing her ties with the Church of Scientology as well as her support of Danny Masterson , who was convicted of raping two women and sentenced to 30 years to life in prison in 2023.
Mars Volta singer Cedric Bixler-Zavala and his wife Chrissie Carnell-Bixler, one of several women who accused Masterson of sexual assault, also spoke out against Armstrong. Bixler-Zavalare shared an earlier post he had written this past year on Dead Sara’s Instagram page, saying: “Do your fans know about your friend Danny Masterson? Your rapist friend.”
Both Bixler-Zavala and Carnell-Bixler are former Scientologists who have said the church harassed them due to their allegations against Masterson.
Jaime added that Linkin Park has “failed to address the concerns of their diverse fan base” and that the music group’s recent actions “are not something people should acclimate to.” He added that the band had “betrayed the trust” of the fanbase who “trusted you to be the bigger better person. To be the change. Because you promised us that was your intention.” He concluded, “Now you’re just senile and tone deaf.”
The appointment of Armstrong and and Linkin park’s new album, “From Zero,” has also sparked backlash amongst fans. Shinoda addressed concerns during a Discord conversation, expressing his understanding of the public shock and outrage while urging for respectful discussion.
Armstrong issued a statement of her own on Sept. 6, telling fans that she “wanted to clear the air” about supporting Masterson.
“I was asked to support someone I considered a friend at a court appearance, and went to one early hearing as an observer. Soon after, I realized I shouldn’t have,” she wrote, adding that she hasn’t connected with Masterson since. “To say it as clearly as possible: I do not condone abuse or violence against women, and I empathize with the victims of these crimes,” she said.
Linkin Park, which is made up of Mike Shinoda, Brad Delson, Phoenix and Joe Hahn now in addition to Armstrong and Brittain, is scheduled for a six-date arena tour with concerts that include stops in Los Angeles, New York, Hamburg, London, Seoul and Bogota. The band’s new album will arrive Nov. 15.
