Balanced Ventilation
Minimized Mechanical Systems
Throughout the construction of these properties, a Phius Certified Verifier provided 3rd party quality assurance and oversight via on-site inspections and performance testing.
Landscapes
The sites are designed to encourage ecological regeneration and enhance the function of the project sites for the community. Key measures include:
Soil amendment
On-site rainwater infiltration and stormwater management
Tree preservation
Promotion of biodiversity, native species selection, and drought tolerant plantings
Incorporation of pollinator gardens
Community gathering spaces
The landscaping has been designed to ensure resilience and sustainability in the face of challenging environmental conditions.
Water
The buildings treat water like a precious resource, minimizing waste and the use of potable water while avoiding downstream impacts and pollution. A 30% reduction target is accomplished by low-flow fixtures, water-saving appliances and equipment, and low-impact landscape design techniques that eliminate the need for irrigation.
Materials
The projects follow Harvard University’s Healthier Building Academy (HHBA) product criteria and standards. The HHBA sets material-health specifications aimed at removing chemical classes of concern and identifying healthier products through category-specific requirements - the fundamental requirement being complete product transparency. Material selection prioritized local sourcing and the project’s lumber was either responsibly sourced or salvaged. The project team made strategic use of existing materials in the building, such as siding, sheathing, brick, and concrete floors to reduce embodied carbon.
Energy
Combined with the PHIUS building measures, a high-performance energy system with heat pump driven technology was selected to meet ambitious Energy Use Intensity (EUI) targets for both buildings.
Far exceeding the ILFI Core requirement of a 50% energy reduction compared to baseline buildings of the same size and function, 13 Kirkland Place and 5 Sacramento Street minimize energy-related carbon emissions that contribute to climate change.
Human Health
Optimizing occupant health drove the majority of design decisions on the project. Several priorities were adopted into the design of these buildings, including:
Providing exceptional indoor air quality and a healthy interior environment for residents
Creating outdoor spaces that promote cycling and walking
Ensuring design centered around universal access
Connecting residents to nature, art, and the surrounding community in meaningful ways
The 10 Imperatives of Living Building Challenge (LBC) Core Certification
1. Ecology of Place
Protect wild and ecologically significant places and encourage ecological regeneration and enhanced function of the communities and places where projects are built.
2. Human-Scaled Living
Contribute toward the creation of walkable, pedestrian-oriented communities that reduce the use of fossil fuel vehicles.
3. Responsible Water Use
Encourage projects to treat water like a precious resource, minimizing waste and the use of potable water, while avoiding downstream impacts and pollution.
4. Energy + Carbon Reduction
Treat energy as a precious resource and minimize energy-related carbon emissions that contribute to climate change. The project is required to achieve a 50% reduction in energy usage compared to a baseline.
5. Healthy Interior Environment
Promote good indoor air quality and a healthy interior environment for project occupants.
6. Responsible Materials
Set a baseline for transparency, sustainable extraction, support of local industry, and waste diversion for all projects.
7. Universal Access
Allow equitable access to and protections from any negative impacts resulting from the development of Living Building projects.
8. Inclusion
Create stable, safe, and high-paying job opportunities for people in the local community, and support local, diverse businesses through hiring, purchasing, and workforce development practices.
9. Beauty + Biophilia
Connect teams and occupants with the benefits of biophilia - or nature in the space - and incorporate meaningful biophilic design elements into the project.
10. Education + Inspiration
Provide educational materials about the operation and performance of the project to the occupants and the public to share successful solutions and catalyze broader change.
The Living Building Challenge Imperatives in Action
The renovations of 5 Sacramento and 13 Kirkland were intentionally designed to meet the 10 Living Building Challenge (LBC) Imperatives. We encourage you to read more about the unique sustainability strategies that were implemented into the construction of these properties, outlined by each imperative below.
How did we do it?
Learn how these buildings align with the Living Building Challenge through innovative construction & design for a more sustainable future:
Ecology of Place
The intent of this Imperative is to protect wild and ecologically significant places and encourage ecological regeneration and enhanced function of the communities and places where projects are built. Several key elements were incorporated to promote ecological improvement:
The subgrade was de-compacted to facilitate the infiltration of water and the flow of oxygen to plant roots.
New soil was added to provide adequate support for plant growth.
Localized low points were created to address stormwater runoff, serving the dual purpose of collecting runoff and allowing for increased infiltration.
These areas also presented an opportunity to introduce wetland plants, contributing to the site's ecological diversity. The plantings were strategically chosen to attract pollinator species by supporting their habitat and promoting biodiversity. Lastly, native and drought-tolerant plants were selected to ensure resilience and sustainability in the face of challenging environmental conditions.
Human-Scaled Living
The intent of this Imperative is to contribute toward the creation of walkable, pedestrian-oriented communities that reduce the use of fossil fuel vehicles.
To meet this imperative, the project has implemented several strategies, including providing bike storage for occupants and opportunities to participate in Harvard's CommuterChoice program - promoting the use of public transportation and human-powered transit. The project is also working on a plan to reduce single-occupancy vehicle trips by advocating for pedestrian-friendly routes and coordinating carpooling efforts. Regular surveys are conducted to assess current fossil fuel-based travel patterns.
Responsible Water Use
The intent of this Imperative is to encourage projects to treat water like a precious resource, minimizing waste and the use of potable water while avoiding downstream impacts and pollution. The project aimed to achieve a 30% reduction from baseline water consumption by implementing various measures. This is achieved through the use of low flow fixtures, which help conserve water by reducing the amount used by occupants. Additionally, the project implemented a 'no potable water policy' for irrigation, which is possible through the use of native and drought-tolerant plants. To effectively manage stormwater on site, the project incorporated strategies to reduce impervious areas by adopting green stormwater infrastructure and low-impact design techniques wherever feasible.
Healthy Interior Environment
The intent of this Imperative is to promote good indoor air quality and a healthy interior environment for project occupants. The project provides outside views and daylight access for 100% of regularly occupied spaces. It also complies with ASHRAE 62 ventilation standards and prohibits smoking within 25 feet of any building opening. The project team has developed a comprehensive Healthy Interior Environment plan that encompasses cleaning protocols, HVAC maintenance, training plans, and strategies for improving air quality and preventing particulate matter.
Energy + Carbon Reduction
The intent of this Imperative is to treat energy as a precious resource and minimize energy-related carbon emissions that contribute to climate change. The project is required to achieve a 50% reduction in energy usage compared to a baseline. Additionally, the buildings are designed to meet PHIUS + 2021 Passive House Certification standard, and the design exceeds the LBC Core requirement of a 50% energy reduction compared to a baseline building of the same size and function.
The anticipated Energy Use Intensity (EUI) is 33 for 13 Kirkland Place, and 23 for 5 Sacramento Street. These EUIs represent significant reductions: 76% for 13 Kirkland Place, and 80% for 5 Sacramento Street.
A high-performance energy system was selected to allow the buildings to meet these ambitious design EUIs. The systems include ERV’s, which recover 9-13 times the amount of energy they use to operate, and heat pumps for both space conditioning and water heating. The space conditioning heat pumps installed produce 2-3 units of heating energy output or 4-5 units of cooling energy output for every one unit of electricity input, and the heat pump water heaters produce hot water with electricity at rates 50 % to 100% more efficient than conventional hot water heaters.
Moreover, the buildings also utilize materials with lower-than-average embodied carbon content for interior materials such as carpet, ceiling tile, and gypsum wall board. The selection of these products further improves the buildings life cycle carbon impact.
Responsible Materials
The intent of this Imperative is to set a baseline for transparency, sustainable extraction, support of local industry, and waste diversion for all projects.
The buildings incorporate Declare label products - Declare is a material ingredient disclosure label designed to promote market transformation and promote the use of healthier materials in buildings. Additionally, 20% of materials used are sourced locally within a 311-mile radius, and 50% of wood used is either FSC-certified or salvaged. The project team also made strategic use of existing materials in the building, such as refurbishing refrigerators and concrete floors, to reduce embodied carbon. Lastly, 80% of renovation waste was diverted from landfills and recycled.
These projects also follow Harvard's Healthier Building Academy (HHBA) product criteria and standards. The HHBA sets material-health specifications for 14 interior product categories required in major new construction and renovation projects at Harvard. It aims to eliminate chemical classes of concern and identify healthier products through category-specific requirements, with the fundamental requirement being complete product transparency.
Universal Access
The intent of this Imperative is to allow equitable access to and protections from any negative impacts resulting from the development of Living Building projects. The design team incorporated the Seven Principles of Universal Design , providing sufficient accommodations to provide better access than the minimum required by ADA and ABA code. The project team enhanced the public realm by ensuring street furniture, public art, gardens, and benches were available on-site.
Inclusion
The intent of this Imperative is to help create stable, safe, and high-paying job opportunities for people in the local community while supporting local and diverse businesses through hiring, purchasing, and workforce development practices. All project team organizations have completed a JUST self-assessment exercise, which is a social equity rating system and label for organizations.
Beauty + Biophilia
The intent of this Imperative is to connect teams and occupants with the benefits of biophilia - or nature in the space - and incorporate meaningful biophilic design elements into the project. The buildings prioritize biophilia by incorporating abundant outdoor gardens, utilizing natural fixtures such as natural wood and brick, showcasing public art, and preserving the building's beautiful historical features. By integrating these meaningful biophilic design elements, the project aims to create a space that enhances the well-being of its inhabitants.
Education + Inspiration
The intent of this Imperative is to provide educational materials about the operation and performance of the project to the occupants and the public to share successful solutions and catalyze broader change. Harvard University housing will host an open day to the public in conjuncture with the Grand Openings, and will offer virtual 3D tours of the space, highlighting LBC Core features of the buildings via their website to provide educational access to the public about the project’s sustainability elements.
Want to learn more?
We invite you to read the full case study for both buildings! The case studies outline all of the numbers, metrics, and details of what makes these residential properties such a remarkable addition to the Harvard University Housing & Real Estate portfolio.
