credit card debt
.
Find a card that earns rewards on the purchases you already make most, and track your budget so you don’t overspend each month. You can save a lot of money with rewards, but only if it’s not costing you in interest at the same time.
3 types of credit card rewards
To find the best rewards credit card for you, start with differences between different types of rewards, how to earn them, and the most valuable ways to use them.
Credit card rewards programs
differ depending on the issuer and specific card you choose. Some may offer the same value for your rewards whether you’re redeeming for gift cards, cash, or travel, while others may award much higher value for one redemption over another. Always read the terms of your card’s rewards program to know what you can get for each redemption.
The three types of credit card rewards you should know include points rewards, miles rewards, and cash-back rewards. Here’s a look at how they differ and how to choose between them:
Points
rewards program
, such as American Express Membership Rewards or Chase Travel. You can typically earn points on every purchase with your card, but will get extra points in specific bonus categories, which may range from dining out to streaming services to travel spending and more.
Points are a flexible rewards currency. You can redeem them for statement credits, booking travel, partner transfers, gift cards, and more. Many points-earning cards are
travel rewards credit cards
, so you’ll often find travel redemptions are most valuable.
Best for: Credit card points are best suited for individuals with varied spending habits who want flexibility in their redemption options. Points-earning cards typically offer great travel rewards and redemptions.They're particularly beneficial for those who prefer a range of redemption options rather than being restricted to cash back or specific travel brands.
How to earn credit card points
Sign-up bonuses:
offer lucrative bonuses for new cardholders once they spend a certain amount within the first few months.
Regular purchases: Cardholders typically earn points for every dollar they spend on eligible purchases.
Bonus categories: Some cards offer higher point rates for specific categories, like travel, dining, supermarkets, or gas stations.
Shopping portals: Many credit card issuers have online shopping portals where users can earn extra points by shopping with partner retailers.
Special promotions: Occasionally, issuers might run promotions or partnerships where cardholders can earn additional points for a limited time.
Miles
travel cards
with flexible rewards or co-branded cards that earn rewards toward specific airline loyalty programs. They often earn the best rates in travel-related bonus categories, though you’ll find many of these cards with everyday bonus categories, too. You can typically redeem miles for travel expenses, including airfare, upgrades, and other benefits.
Best for: Credit card miles are ideal for frequent travelers, be it for
business
or leisure. They cater to individuals who are looking to offset their travel expenses or enjoy travel perks, such as a faster path to elite status with your preferred airline, airport lounge access, priority boarding, and free baggage check. Many cards that earn miles are also
, making them a good choice for travelers who prefer flying with a specific brand each time.
How to earn credit card miles
Sign-up bonuses: Many miles-based credit cards offer a sizable chunk of miles as a bonus for new users who meet a certain spending threshold within the initial months.
Everyday purchases: Typically, cardholders earn a set number of miles for every dollar they spend.
Travel-related expenses: Many
travel credit cards
offer additional miles for expenses related to travel, like booking flights, hotels, or car rentals with the associated brand or partners.
Dining programs: Some card issuers have dining reward programs that give extra miles when you dine at partner restaurants.
Promotional campaigns: Issuers often run limited-time offers where spending in certain categories or with certain partners can yield bonus miles.
Cash-back
