What are the different types of Sam’s Club memberships?
There are two levels of Sam’s Club memberships: the classic Sam’s Club membership and a Sam’s Club Plus membership.
The first tier is a year-long, base-level membership, which lets you shop for products in stores or online. It also comes with perks like access to exclusive sale events and fuel discounts. The Club membership typically costs $50, but is currently on sale for $15 for non-members through Sept. 30.
The Sam’s Club Plus membership is usually $110 for a year, but is now on sale for $50 for non-members through Sept. 30. This premium and more robust membership is ideal for businesses, according to the brand. It offers all the Club tier perks plus additional ways to save including free shipping on orders $50 or over free Delivery from Club on qualifying orders as well as more cash back.
What benefits come with a Sam’s Club membership?
When you sign up for a basic Sam’s Club membership, now $15 (70% off) for non-members through Sept. 30, you get more than just bulk savings. With this annual membership (regularly $50), you’ll get these perks:
Two complimentary membership cards: Each membership comes with a card for the account holder and one free card for another household member. Add up to eight members at a discounted rate.
Members-only sales: Besides Sam’s Club reduced pricing, get access to Instant Savings events.
Scan & Go shopping: When shopping in person, speed up the process by using this app to scan items, then easily pay directly in the app to skip the checkout lines. Just head right out with a digital receipt.
Same-day delivery: Get same-day delivery on eligible items ordered by 1 p.m. There’s no order minimum for this service but a $12 fee per order for club members ($8 or free for orders over $50 for Plus members).
Curbside pickup: Shop eligible items online or from the Sam’s Club app. Pick up the order at your local Sam's Club without getting out of the car. Just check in via your phone and a Sam's employee will load the order right into the car. Now, the $4 fee for this service it’s waived on orders over $50 (and it’s free for Plus members).
Fuel and gift card savings: Sam’s Club members can use exclusive gas prices and save up to 25% off gift cards from favorite stores and brands.
Health and wellness savings: Club members have access to free hearing tests, walk-in vaccines, hundreds of generic brand prescriptions starting at $4 and 40% off additional prescription glasses when you buy a complete pair.
What are the benefits of a Sam’s Club Plus membership?
For those looking for the most savings, Sam’s Club Plus membership is the premium option. This next-level annual membership is on sale for $50 for non-members through Sept. 30 (normally $110 for the year). This upgraded membership comes with some additional benefits including:
Early shopping: Monday through Friday, Plus members can beat the crowds and shop two hours before the clubs open to all members. On Saturdays, shop one hour earlier, depending on location.
Early access to sales events: Plus members get early access to online sales events and in-store deals.
Extra cash back: All Club members earn 1% Sam’s Cash when they use a Sam’s Club Mastercard, but Plus members get 3%. For other payment methods, Plus members get 2% cash back on qualifying purchases (with a year max of $500).
Same-day delivery: Now, Plus members get free same-day delivery on qualifying orders of $50 or more placed before 1 p.m. There’s an $8 service fee for orders under $50.
Curbside pickup: Plus members can enjoy free curbside pickup (which is $4 for Club members on orders under $50).
Tire and installation savings: Save 50% on tire installation with four-year roadside assistance and lifetime repair as a Plus member.
Pharmacy savings: Get select generic prescription medications for $0 as a Plus member.
