Find a Space
Booking Space for an Event
The Cabot Science Library has many flexible spaces great for events of all types — including the Discovery Bar, Puzzle Tables, video conference room, instruction room, and open spaces on the main and lower levels.
The entrance and main level of the Cabot Science Library.
If you're interested in booking an event at Cabot, fill out this form and we will get back to you within approximately two business days.
Things to keep in mind
Library approval is needed for reservation of event spaces.
Academic events are given priority.
Food is allowed in most areas of Cabot. Any catering or setup arrangements are the responsibility of the event organizer, in consultation with the Cabot Library staff assistant.
Events can only be held during normal library open hours. Please review the library hours, particularly during holidays, university breaks, and summer to ensure the library is open when you need it.
Coordination with the Science Center, where Cabot Science Library is located, will be required for all large events, with special attention for events that may affect the cafe and courtyard.
Large events may incur a clean up fee.
Show LessShow More
Accessibility of Cabot Library
Cabot Science Library is located inside the Science Center, and the main entrance is near the Clover coffee bar. All Science Center entrances are accessible via ramps and automatic doors.
Cabot has fourteen group study rooms, all of which are ADA-compliant.
The puzzle tables on the main level are wheelchair-accessible. Electrical outlets are in the floor below the tables. Printers on the main floor are wheelchair-accessible, and there is an accessible ScannX near the stairwell.
The library’s elevator connects Cabot’s three floors, but a more accessible elevator is located outside of the library near the Science Center guard’s desk. To access the lower level of Cabot, take the Science Center elevator to the basement and enter via the HUIT Support Center.
Cabot has two ADA-compliant restrooms — one for women and one for men — on the main level.  Three all-gender restrooms are located on the second level.
Contact Cabot Library Communications and Administrative Assistant Ron Lacey, cablib@fas.harvard.edu , with questions about accessibility of events, elevators, study spaces, and restrooms.
Using the Library
