Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff's biggest AI fears
The late Stephen Hawking warned against an AI-centered future for humanity, and with movies like Terminator and The Minority Report, we can understand that caution. That said, other movies like WALL-E and Big Hero 6 present much more optimistic scenarios that we might see. Yahoo Finance Executive Editor Brian Sozzi sat down with Salesforce (CRM) CEO Marc Benioff at Dreamforce 2024, who made the point that, "technology is not good or bad, it's what you do with it. It's our job to guide the technology and set the values." Salesforce has exemplified that be building The Einstein Trust Layer as an active step toward AI safety, security, and responsibility. For full episodes of Opening Bid, watch on our website or listen on your favorite podcast platform.
ACCESSWIRE
The FUELD Conference, a 3-day tech and marketing conference in the USA and Dubai, focuses on integrating marketing and technology to enhance business strategies. WILMINGTON, DE / ACCESSWIRE / September 28, 2024 / TheFUELD Conferenceis excited to announce ...
TipRanks
Blink Charging surpasses 100,000 charger milestone
Blink Charging has surpassed 100,000 chargers sold, deployed, or contracted globally. “We’re proud to reach this significant accomplishment through dedicated pursuit of our mission to advance the energy transition through Blink’s innovative charging solutions,” said Brendan Jones, Blink’s President and CEO. “By prioritizing, listening to, and understanding our customers’ needs and expectations, we have learned to strategically tailor charger placement and installation, so that the right charger
Investor's Business Daily
The stock market made modest but bullish moves last week, with Robinhood among new buys. Tesla deliveries are on tap.
Reuters
Online sellers on Walmart's Flipkart sue India watchdog over antitrust probe
Three online sellers operating on Walmart-owned Flipkart have sued the Indian antitrust watchdog over an investigation which found they, Flipkart and rival Amazon breached competition laws, according to court filings seen by Reuters.  The filings come after antitrust investigations concluded in August found Amazon and Flipkart, some of their sellers and smartphone brands, violated local competition laws by giving undue preference to select online sellers and prioritizing certain listings, Reuters has reported.
Simply Wall St.
Key Insights Significantly high institutional ownership implies WaFd's stock price is sensitive to their trading...
TipRanks
Costco price target raised to $909 from $873 at Truist
Truist raised the firm’s price target on Costco to $909 from $873 and keeps a Hold rating on the shares. The company’s Q4 results were “strong” as sales trends remain robust and its stacked growth rate is the strongest and most consistent within the firm’s coverage, the analyst tells investors in a research note. Truist adds however that it still sees valuation as “extremely stretched” even for Costco, also warning that the recent operational changes could prove to be negatives at the margin. Pu
Motley Fool
Investors who love to hear about new revenue streams will appreciate the latest news from Rivian.
TipRanks
Has the Recent Dip in Adobe Stock Created a Buying Opportunity?
Adobe (ADBE) stock plummeted after the company posted the earnings beat for FQ3 2024 on September 12. The stock is currently down 14% for the year, and this article is going to discuss whether the recent dip has created a buying opportunity. Adobe is known for its leading software products that help individuals and teams with graphic design, video editing, and web development, among many other use cases. It’s the product to go for if you’re a professional in the creativity and design businesses.
USA TODAY
