Spaces
Reading Room
The Fine Arts Library Reading Room is an open, light-filled space located on the main level of the library. Learn more about the Reading Room .
Study Carrels
The Fine Arts Library has a limited number of carrels located in the book stacks. Learn more about applying for a study carrel .
Special Collections Study Room
The Fine Arts Library Special Collections Study Room.
The Fine Arts Library welcomes researchers to our Special Collections Study Room to view historical photographs, rare books, manuscript facsimiles, auction sales catalogs, archival collections, and other materials from our Special Collections, which do not circulate outside of the library.
Access
The Special Collections Study Room is currently open by appointment to all researchers (both HUID holders and visiting researchers).
Note that non-HUID holders will need to register for an account with the Harvard Library Access and Borrowing Office prior to accessing the library.
Accessibility of The Fine Arts Library
The back entrance to the Littauer Center, adjacent to the Littauer parking lot, is accessible by automatic door and ramp. There’s an elevator on Level-G, and the Fine Arts Library is located on Level-1.
There is an all-gender restroom on Level-1 next to the elevator in the Littauer Center, and accessible bathrooms are located on the Level-G.
If you need assistance accessing the stacks or have other questions about accessibility, contact Fine Arts Library Access Services, falibcir@fas.harvard.edu .
Schedule a Study Room Appointment
For the health and safety of our researchers and staff, we ask that you schedule an appointment to visit the Special Collections Study Room using the Appointment Request form .
Appointments must be made at least 24 hours in advance.
No walk-in or same day appointments will be available.
Be sure to also request materials via the instructions below.
Request Materials to View
Special collections materials can be requested for viewing using the “Request to Scan or Visit” link in the HOLLIS record to connect to HOLLIS Special Request .
Some requests, especially for materials held offsite, may require two to four business days to process.
Please note that HOLLIS Special Request does not send automated email confirmations. Feel free to contact us to confirm availability ahead of scheduling your visit.
Be sure to also schedule a Study Room appointment via the instructions above.
Request Materials to Digitize
Special collections materials can be requested for digitization using the “Request to Scan or Visit” link in the HOLLIS record to connect to HOLLIS Special Request .
For course use or reference questions, contact us directly.
Class Visits
The library may be able to accommodate small classes and sections in the Study Room for hands-on engagement with Special Collections materials.
Instructors may make a request via the Special Collections and Archives Class Request Tool or contact us directly.
Virtual course sessions can be arranged for large or small classes as needed.
General Guidelines
Here are some things to keep in mind for your visit:
Handling guidelines must be conscientiously followed in order to preserve library materials for future use. Library staff are always available to provide guidance.
Researchers should not remove any items from the Study Room or rearrange any items within a folder or any folders within a box. If material appears to be out of order, please notify library staff.
If you need help in handling Special Collections materials, or if you have any questions about them, please don't hesitate to ask the library staff, who are always willing to provide assistance and suggestions to assist your research.
Researchers are welcome to bring pencils, laptops, tablets, phones (in silent mode), digital cameras, and other materials to assist in their research.
Researchers may bring personal books or papers into the Reading Room only if these items are necessary for their immediate research.
All other materials and personal property not essential for research -- including coats, bags, backpacks, computer cases, and other belongings -- must be stored in the lockers provided.
We offer a number of supplies that may help you in your research, including: pencils, note taking paper, magnifying glasses, tape measures and rulers, a small light box, and headphones.
The library does not permit the use of pens, tripods, scanners, camera flashes, special lighting, or any other equipment that rests directly on collection material or may pose a risk of damage.
Researchers are welcome to photograph most materials. Some collections may be subject to donor stipulations that limit or prohibit photography. Researchers are asked not to take pictures of the Study Room itself, other patrons, or library staff.
In order to preserve relative quiet for our researchers, we ask laptop computer and digital camera users to turn off all audible features, if possible.
Show LessShow More
Beverage Policy
The Fine Arts Library allows patrons to have coffee in an approved container in the main Reading Room only.
Only water in a tight container with a secure lid is allowed in the stacks and carrels. No beverages are allowed in the Special Collections Study Room. This policy will be subject to change at any time.
No single use containers with the exception of water.
Containers must NOT exceed 16 oz, except for water bottles.
Containers must be fully covered with a tight, resealable lid.
Coffee is only allowed in the main Reading Room.
Only water is allowed in the stacks and carrels.
Beverages are not allowed in the Special Collections Study Room.
Food is not allowed anywhere in the Fine Arts Library.
The Fine Arts Library reserves the right to change and amend the policy as needed.
