Discover the Latest Analyst and Technical Research for This Sector
Analyst Report: Lithium Americas (Argentina) Corp.
Lithium Argentina is a pure-play lithium producer. The company owns two neighboring lithium brine resources in northwest Argentina: Cauchari-Olaroz and Pastos Grandes. Cauchari-Olaroz entered production in 2023, while Pastos Grandes is still in development. Lithium Argentina plans for both resources to be fully integrated with onside downstream processing capabilities and will sell into the lithium chemical market.
Rating
Morningstar• 19 hours ago
Daily – Vickers Top Insider Picks for 09/27/2024
The Vickers Top Insider Picks is a daily report that utilizes a proprietary algorithm to identify 25 companies with compelling insider purchase histories based on transactions over the past three months.
Argus• yesterday
Analyst Report: BASF SE
Founded in 1865 and based in Germany, BASF is the world’s largest chemical company, with products spanning the full chemical spectrum of commodity to specialty. In addition, the company is a strong player in agricultural crop protection chemicals and emissions control catalysts for cars and trucks. Given its sheer size, BASF has a top-three market position in approximately 70% of its businesses. The company is undergoing a transformation where it will divest the surface technologies and agricultural solutions businesses over the next several years. These two segments combine to generate nearly 40% of total revenue.
Rating
Morningstar• yesterday
Analyst Report: BHP Group Limited
BHP is a global diversified miner mainly supplying iron ore and copper. The merger of BHP Limited and Billiton PLC created the present-day BHP Group. The dual-listed structure from the 2001 BHP and Billiton merger was collapsed in 2022. Major assets include Pilbara iron ore and Escondida copper. Onshore US oil and gas assets were sold in 2018 and the remaining Petroleum assets were spun off and merged with Woodside in 2022, with BHP vesting the Woodside shares it received to BHP shareholders. It purchased copper miner Oz Minerals in fiscal 2023 and is entering the potash market through the development of its Jansen project in Canada. However, due to low nickel prices, BHP is placing its nickel business on care and maintenance in late 2024.
Rating
