Congratulatory Advertisements with The Crimson
Welcome
With mighty thanks to all who helped celebrate, we congratulate the inimitable Harvard class of 2024 and welcome them to the community of Harvard University alumni/ae worldwide. Later this year, we will share updates leading up to Harvard’s 374th Commencement Exercises to be held on Thursday, May 29, 2025.
For news coverage and videos of past commencement exercises, please see the links below.
If you have specific questions regarding information that is not covered in the individual graduate or professional school pages (found here ), or for college seniors (found here ) please contact the Commencement Office at commencement@harvard.edu . Thank you.
Commencement OfficeHarvard University
* * * Sign up to receive emergency text alerts. Should an event occur on or near any of the Harvard campuses, Harvard University Police will send an alert advising you of the situation and instructions on what to do. Visit messageme.harvard.edu to learn more.
Ensuring a Safe, Respectful and Inclusive Commencement
Each year, Harvard's dedicated faculty, staff, alumni, and students come together to plan a commencement ceremony that honors the achievements and bright futures of our outstanding graduates. Commencement is a time to reflect on the contributions of all within our Harvard community who support our students' success. Our top priority is to honor and celebrate our graduates in a way that is safe, respectful, and inclusive for all as degree candidates mark this major milestone in their lives.
Commencement ceremonies have, over centuries of tradition, provided an opportunity for peaceful expression on important issues. We support respectful dialogue while prioritizing safety. Security will be present to facilitate an atmosphere where graduates and guests can fully participate in the ceremony.
Specific security measures include:
Screening all guests at entry gates for prohibited items
Requiring tickets for entry into Harvard Yard
Restricting backpacks, large bags, and other items that could pose safety risks
Prohibiting signs or banners that block views or disrupt the ceremony
Most of all, we hope this celebration honors the hard work of our newest alumni.
COMMENCEMENT WEEK AT HARVARD UNIVERSITY
The University is excited to host a series of commencement and alumni events to celebrate the accomplishments of our graduates and our alumni community. In light of recent events, Harvard Yard will remain closed to all but HUID card holders until further notice. Designated guests attending events must have tickets to enter the Yard. Guests and students are advised to plan a few extra minutes to enter the Yard prior to events. For more information about access to the Yard for graduates and their guests, visit this page.
